A Special Teleconference Call

Join Nia Founder Debbie Rosas on a

Special Teleconference Call

Learn how choice is key to manifesting the life you desire
Learn how to activate the resonance of magic through love
Learn the 3 tools and 6 techniques used in manifesting

In 1975 I was introduced to the art of manifesting through friends to who is now my metaphysical teacher, Lazaris. He taught me a powerful lesson I have used everyday to manifest the body and life I desire. The lesson he taught me says, “In the realm of high magic the highest magic is love, and the only technique is choice”. I also learned about manifesting from my body and life, defined as nunc stans, meaning: the timeless present is where we craft our future and manifest the life we desire. On this end of year call I will share the manifesting tools and techniques that have changed my body and life!

Register and download the worksheet I have created to help you step into 2015.






Preparation

I am watching the routine “Butterfly” in preparation for teaching tonight. It’s been a few weeks since I have been on the dance floor, which seems to be the status quo for me these days. What I love about this getting ready process is recapitulating through my body what I remember, and acknowledging in my mind what I don’t remember. I watch each song, and then say the moves out loud. What is unique that helps me learn and remember is my story; what I create to weave and tie all the songs together.

I love this routine. I created it at my dad’s bedside when he was dying. This is why the first song starts in a crouched position, and why the wings, my arms, are folded, then extend.

I love the playlist, the musicality of the songs, and how each song supports the butterfly in me. I always feel nourished in my core and upper extremities after I teach this routine.

I’ve come to understand the greatest gift of a routine is in returning to the DVD and using it to receive inspiration. As someone who creates the work, being inspired is key to my on-going creativity. Saying, “I know it” is a sure fire statement to kill creative passion. Best of all, I get to team-teach with Andrea Bell every Tuesday and Thursday night! It’s so fun. Wish me luck! Hopefully I can get back down and up in the song, How Many More Years, which is one of the skill gifts from this body of work. I love song 1, how I get my wings, and in song 2 how I start to travel up and back, make sound and shake my wings off. In song 3 I get my cross yin-yang wings, wings cross and connect, they relate yin and yang, piercing space and time. In song 4 I get to flutter and walk the circle of life from left to right, yin-yang elbow wings flying high and low, ending in Sounding with my wings. In song 5 I get to be Jazzy with wings, playing with levels and pelvis, chest and head. In song 6 I get to come back home to left and right, soft wings, centering into the now. Fluidity brings me home and into FreeDance with the community. Moving around the room, “with” my students. In song 7 I think it’s over. NOT! 1-2-3 Stop, elbow across the body, the Jazz Square shakes my wings. Then the kick step back with claps is still one of my favorite moves. I love this pattern. Speed, precision, getting ready for what? Anything. The soul…it’s my… I love the face of the students, their surprise. It’s a favorite-of mine, maybe not theirs but mine. In the mirror, look into…amazing ending, with of course floor and play. I love Nia! I love the body. I love life. I love you all for choosing pleasure, joy, the body’s way and your body’s way. Wish me luck. I made it!






Therapy

As life would have it my scheduled Podcast fell through. I left the microphone in the office! Or maybe the universe and God had something to do with it. I think so.

After the Stuart show energy is coming down. As usual I am navigating my life as wife, mother, sister, business partner. Not easy and the stress is causing my heart to feel constricted so I called the doctor. No real heart attack, but definitely pain of creating, co-creating and wanting to let go of struggle. For me, easier said than done.

Bill my, our therapist was the next choice of where to go once the podcast was rescheduled. Funny, my guest was Mark Metz, the conscious dancer creator dude. I guess the universe heard my cry of “I want to consciously dance with my guy better”.

I’m really good at saying no to pain on the dance floor, now if I can only do it in my life! Wish me, us, luck.






Check Up

I recently had three friends go to the hospital. Why? Heart stuff. I took this as a sign to get a check up. It had been two years for me. At 64 as much as I’d like to think I am invincible, in great shape—life happens. Sometimes it happens to the healthy and unhealthy, and for logical and illogical reasons. I don’t want to be a statistic. So here I sit, EKG in hand. Waiting for the check up where I’ll be asked all kinds of questions, some of which I will be able to answer in a much more intelligent way than the average person as I am body literate, meaning: to a certain degree I can read the sensory messages my body sends to me. The ones speaking to me now that let me know I am stressed, I need to chill out, relax, and not take things so seriously. Chilling out will relax the constriction I sense in the center of my chest. I know where it all comes from. The last few months with my guy healing, has been extremely stressful. Watching, not able to do anything but pray, we watch and we wait for three to four months and hope the virus is gone. Last time we made it to month three and in month four it came back like a raging bull. If it comes back this time he says he will not do more treatment. We’ll see. In the mean time, we wait. He continues to work on his second album, run Nia, giving me the space to write my book, and do my Nia as art. I am blessed in many ways.






Sunday

Starbucks, me, taking time, no place to go and reading the New York Times front to back. What a luxury to read with no time limit. Add to this, the sun is actually shining in Portland, which is another sign the weather is changing, like me and my body, always in some kind of flux from cold, to hot, to wet, to dry. And yes, I have to cut the grass on my legs and manicure the lawn of the in between, where supposedly the grass grows greener. Today I shall write, spending time finishing projects I am responsible for. Today I shall celebrate the fact that I get to do what I love, and that I live in a country where I have so many freedoms and choices. Yes, things can always be better. Like my body, there can always be better health, but now is what I have, and I shall celebrate it.






Monday

I’m cold. I’ve been cold for three weeks. My heater broke and we’ve been too busy to be home to deal with it. Good thing the weather has been on our side. Having no heat is something no one should have to experience. Food, clothing, shelter, basics, these are the things every human being deserves. Rule 1: when your heat goes out check the breaker. It was off! While I had hoped that was “it” I sit with my fingers crossed. Turns out the heat pump and the emergency heat are not working. Hat on, wool scarf around my neck, I’m typing with gloves on.






History In the Making

Women’s history month couldn’t come at a more synchronistic time for me as I will be presenting at the Mastery Program of Mama Gena’s School of Womanly Arts this weekend in NYC.

Deep, meaningful sisterhood—women who are collaborating and taking each other higher—that is the magic that happens in this course. I am so grateful to have had the opportunity to speak at these courses for over eight years. And, to all the women who have paved the way, opened the door, spoken out, and stood up for me – I say, "YES."

Regena celebrated one of her close collaborators and friends in her blog this week called “A Book of Ruth” (http://www.mamagenas.com/ruth/). In today’s blog post, I want to share with you a story about callings and Sisterhood, and what is possible when you follow them.

Minds of pleasure think alike as I have also planned similar love fests this week in recognition of Women's History Month. I honor the teachers of Mastery over the years, Christiane Northrup, Sheila Kelly and Barbara Stanny. A special shout out to Janine Francolini, who introduced me to Regena and this powerful work; and to Kate Northrup Watts, who planted a seed with Janine on her White Belt almost ten years ago. That seed grew into some powerful pleasure magic.

Sisterhood – one for all and all for one. It’s a powerful force. I’m deeply proud to do my part in taking a leadership role and responsibility for changing the history of women. My way has always been through the body, choosing pleasure through every step.
It's a sacred honor to be with one of my favorite muses, Regena Thomashauer a.k.a. Mama Gena and 350 women on fire with the desire to be taken higher.

Here's to pleasure for all!

"Good things come – really magnificent, inconceivable magic is created when you follow a calling, entrenched and surrounded by Sisterhood." Mama Gena

Want to learn more?

Listen to Debbie Rosas' podcast "The Voice of the Feminine Spirit" 
Take a Workshop or Training with Debbie






Love At JCC In New York City

Dancing is what I love to do, and I love nothing more than dancing with students from around the world.

When you get to do what you love, you are truly blessed. I am blessed! Today I got to dance with Nia trainer, Caroline Kohles, and her students at the JCC in Manhattan. I got to see how Nia has been changing lives and bodies. My focus, balance, challenged standing on one leg, looking to see all around as we moved the entire body. As we engage the neck and whole spine, we were able to shift from a two-dimensional perspective into three-dimensional awareness, which is the reality we live in, 3D.

Inspired by the depth of body skills, the students revealed the teaching expertise of Caroline. I was reminded that in the martial arts the master looks at the students to see how well the teacher is training them. Bravo, Caroline Kohles! You rock at teaching. I am so proud to dance with the New York JCC students!






Sacred Sisterhood

The first time I became aware that women could be something other than mothers was when my mother took me to the museum to see the exhibit of the Egyptian Golden King Tutankhamun, a.k.a. King Tut.  But, as we marveled at the ancient artifacts, it wasn’t King Tut that interested me.

I was drawn to the great Queen Nefertiti. Her jewelry, the bust of her head wearing the unusually tall crown, everything about her intrigued me. The fact that Tut’s father, the Pharaoh Akhenaten, had the figure of Nefertiti carved onto the four corners of his granite sarcophagus really got my attention.  He chose her as the one to provide protection to his mummy, so he would be safe in the afterlife.  Not only did she have a unique beauty and style, but she was powerful!  There is evidence that Nefertiti held unprecedented power even for an Egyptian royal woman.
She was elevated to the status of co-regent, equal in status to the Pharaoh and many believe she continued to rule as pharaoh after the Kings death.

I remember telling my mother I had been Queen Nefertiti in another lifetime and that her jewelry had been mine! My mother didn’t buy my story nor did she buy me any reproductions of the jewelry but she did buy me a book. It was the story of the excavation of King Tutankhamun's Tomb in 1922.  Led by British archaeologist Howard Carter who, after World War I in 1891, with fellow scientist George Herbert, the Earl of Carnarvon, began an intensive search for Tutankhamun's tomb in the Valley of the Kings. Their search would last 17 years.

My search for who I am as a woman has, thus far, lasted 64 years. With seven billion people in the world, sometimes one wonders, “How do I make a difference?” You make a difference by being unique, different, the one-of-a-kind, authentic “you”. You become your own revolutionary great woman, and you become aware of who is on your revolutionary list of Sacred Sisters.  These are the women who inspire you to do your best and empower you to reach your potential.  They are the ones who have paved the way for you to succeed, lifted you up when you needed a boost or believed in you even when you lost faith in yourself.  You recognize them, and you celebrate them.

One woman on my list, for whom I will always be grateful, is Janine Francolini, the Founder of Flawless Foundation, a remarkable organization working to break the stigma of mental illness.  Janine is a powerful woman dedicated to the mental health of humanity. Barely five feet tall, she is a voice and power not to reckon with unless you want to stand and help make a difference.

In her recent Huffington Post article (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/janine-francolini/our-daughters-our-girlsou_b_6959444.html) Janine honored women like me, who in her Sacred Sisterhood she believes and feels walk with her on her path of healing. Yes, it takes a village to do many things in our world, and specifically it takes a village of supportive women to help the world heal.

Who is on your list of Sacred Sisterhood?  Share, tweet, post, and let them know you are grateful.






Maslow and Business | Achieving our “Peak” desires.

I had a garage sale this weekend. Tables filled with the stuff of my life, and I mean A LOT of stuff. Stuff filled with memories, moments in my story that at one time felt deeply meaningful and important, now were for sale to strangers.

One of my favorite moments at the garage sale was sitting in the sun on a “for sale” chair, waiting for people to come. I sat reading one of the books for sale, PEAK: How Great Companies Get Their Mojo from Maslow by Chip Conley, the founder of Joie de Vivre, a boutique hotel business. As Conley writes in his book, “Peak is about the miracle of human potential.” He describes potential in business as employees living up to their full potential in the workplace, customers feeling the potential bliss associated with having their needs met, and investors feeling fulfilled by seeing the potential of their capital investment leveraged. All fine and good, but what about the leader? What about the person in charge of lighting the way, guiding, motivating and inspiring all those people? I know from first-hand experience how daunting this role can be. Conley later defines the role of a leader, “Great leaders know how to tap into potential and actualize it into reality.” Leaders are the facilitators of potential. This is how I strive to lead.

As I continued to sit and read in the sunshine, Conley goes on to discuss the book, Toward a Psychology of Being by Abraham Maslow, as well as, Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. Maslow’s hierarchy of needs is a pyramid structure that builds from a physiological base consisting of the basics: sleep, water, and food. As each individual’s needs are met, they move up to the next levels of the pyramid: safety, social-connection, esteem, and self-actualization.



Self-actualization is at the top of the structure, this is the place where people have transient moments called “peak experiences,” which is a term comparable to being in the “zone” or in the “prime” of life. In reference to the experience of self-actualization, Maslow wrote, “They are moments of ecstasy which cannot be bought, cannot be guaranteed, cannot even be sought… but one can set up the conditions so that peak experiences are more likely.”  Stuart and I seek to achieve this actualization and this “peak” experience in our work.

It’s funny how picking up a book at my own garage sale led me into unexpected lessons in business and life. It reminds me, every moment is full of potential; be ready for it.






TEDWomen2015: My Journal Entry #1

Arriving at TEDWomen 2015: Momentum

I arrive early Wednesday morning to Monterey, CA, fresh off spending two days with my mother and sister near Santa Cruz. After I check into my hotel and gather my bearings, I feel a mix of excitement and fear, as I have never been to a TEDWomen conference before. I walk into my first event and sit in a moon-shaped couch looking directly into the middle of a black stage. As I tune into the women chatting around me, I realize the networking taking place is nothing I have experienced before.  The atmosphere feels far less competitive, more genuine and open. With a twinkle in her gaze, the morning host, Courtney Martin, invites us to become part of the global community of TED. I start to cry, not because of what she is saying, but because I know I am blessed to be in this room. I am privileged, I am full of gratitude, and I feel at home in this room of thinkers, dreamers, and visionaries.

One such visionary behind TEDWomen, elegantly walks on stage and introduces herself.  Pat Mitchell, co-curator of TEDWomen is the former first female president and CEO of PBS.  I feel her passion and drive, as she delivers a stellar and masterful message of her desire to find people driving new innovations in the world. She sets the focus for TEDWomen: Momentum, defined as: moving forward, gaining speed, and building traction. The three days will be filled with speakers and performers based on words associated with Momentum: spark, surface, seduce, sustain and the following day: shift and share. Combined, she says, you get the very best momentum. I feel captivated and focused and feel the energy rising.

Another beautiful part of the mastery in curating TEDWomen is music. Linda Briceño is a Venezuelan performing artist/activist, trumpeter, singer, big-band leader and an advocate for change. In 2012, Linda was recognized as a Young Global Shaper for her efforts in developing empowerment strategies for young artists. Jazz musician, Wynton Marsalis once said, “There is a weight in her sound, weight, weight. This you either have it or you don’t, and it is very unusual for such a young person to have it the way she does.” I feel what his words say. She sings about matters that concern her, and with each word, each sound of the trumpet, each stroke of the keyboard, every part of her, she created music with a message.  I loved it.

Listening to Sakena Yakoobi speak, I feel her courage and unending belief in the Afghan people. Sakena’s drive is education, and since 1995 has worked at the grassroots level to empower women. She founded and leads the Afghan Institute of Learning (AIL) focusing on providing teacher training to Afghan women, education for boys and girls, and health education to both. Sakena says, “I had to do something, as my heart was hurting for my people.” When the Taliban closed schools for girls, AIL supported 80 underground home schools reaching 3,000 girls, a dangerous act of defiance. Sakena shared, “When you educate people, you create change.” She has since been recognized with multiple awards over the years and her successful efforts have been replicated by other organizations throughout Afghanistan. Sakena wants the world to see Afghanistan as more than a war, but for the people. I have many women I admire and perceive as warriors, Sakena is now one, a wizard who embodies pure magic helping millions of Afghans benefit from AIL’s programs.

The beginning of TEDWomen launches with captivating speakers and I am excited for the rest of the weekend.






TEDWomen2015: My Journal Entry #2: Music Edition!

One of the beautiful parts of the TEDWomen: Momentum seminar are the musical performances sprinkled throughout the schedule of engaging and challenging speakers. The music speaks to my soul, relaxing my brain and my body.

An absolute delight and surprise to me is the dueling banjo duo, Bela Fleck and Abigail Washburn. Bringing two different sensibilities to the same instrument, they weave the magic of different registers. Bela Fleck is a 15-time Grammy winner, a legendary banjo player known for his virtuosic compositions. Abigail Washburn, a TED Fellow, is a singer-songwriter who uses the banjo to bridge cultural divides. The two have been married since 2009, but with the birth of their son in 2014, they decided to record an album as a duo. Together, they weave the most amazing sonic experience.

While listening to SOMI, vocalist, songwriter, and culturist, I am transported by her lustrous voice and wide-ranging music style, rooted in elegant vocal jazz from African legacies. Referred to as the “New Nina Simone” by The Huffington Post, her performance left me awed. Born to immigrants from Rwanda and Uganda, Somi moved from New York to Nigeria in 2011 for 18 months. The result is her 2014 jazz album: The Lagos Music Salon, which landed at #1 on US Jazz charts. But seeing Somi in person is a special pleasure - a talent not to miss.

Gina Loring elegantly stands on stage, sings and speaks with power and grace. Accomplished poet, vocalist, songwriter and professor, she shares her honest, soulful poetry and music with us. Sitting in my seat, I am moved to tears as her voice wafts through the audience. Gina brings her brave and intimate self-expression to her performances, and as a guest artist for the American Embassy, has graced stages around the globe. Gina is a volunteer creative writing teacher with Inside Out Writers, working with incarcerated teens. Gina brims with power, grace and expression, delivers a captivating performance, and has a heart for helping others.

I am reminded of my own musical journey through Nia and how music has taught me to breathe, listen, slow down, and become more sensitive to the landscape of sound. These artists each emotionally draw me into their beautiful musical landscapes and are a welcome and therapeutic addition to the astounding lineup.






TEDWomen2015: My Final Journal Entry #3

This week concludes the series of TEDWomen journal entries. Join me as I highlight Jimmy Carter, Erin Pettit and Nancy Lublin, all focusing on supporting women through different avenues. 

Jimmy Carter

Former President Jimmy Carter, small and elegant, floats on stage without disturbing a single molecule, and in an instant, consumes all of my attention. His mission is to promote human rights and he believes the number one abuse on earth is the abuse of women and girls. ‘Why?’, he asks. Misinterpretations of religion, which place women second in the eyes of God. Men exert a power they do not want to relinquish. He goes on listing startling statistics on the mistreatment of women; thirty million people live in slavery. Of 26,000 sexual assaults reported in the military, only 3,000 have been prosecuted. One in four girls attending University will be raped. Women receive 23% less pay for completing the same job. My eyes well up. President Carter challenges us as women to speak up and speak out. He addresses us, ‘The forces of faith sustain us, and the people that can sustain this, sustain the momentum needed to create change.’ The largest influence to create this momentum will come from women and girls. I am moved and touched deeply by his message, presence and spirit.

A loud, sizzling, and high “C” sound emanates throughout the room. Silence fell upon us as Erin Pettit gives us the opportunity to listen to glaciers melting! Erin “listens” to the ice movements in order to predict how their behavior will change, and how our climate will change. As I heard the ice shelf disintegrating, I was moved to tears, learning how the changes in our ocean’s circulation is affecting the world. Erin brilliantly was the first person to apply hydrophone technology to studying glaciers, as it is most commonly used to listen to sounds solely underwater. She dissects the recordings to determine what movement the flute, tuba or trumpet sounds signify for glacial change. Wonderfully, during her graduate work she created Girls on Ice. The organization leads wilderness science expeditions for high school girls, inspiring them to understand how science helps us explore and learn about the world. I am intrigued and want to go on an expedition!

Nancy Lublin is a social activist, mobilizer, and entrepreneur who founded DoSomething.org, the largest organization for teens and social change. As CEO, or as she says, “Chief Old Person,” she is dedicated to harnessing the extraordinary energy of teens, focusing on issues teens care about passionately. I love how Lublin spoke about teens as an unappreciated source of social action coming. In addition to her work with teens, Lublin has created two additional organizations, including Dress for Success, which helps women transition from welfare to work, and her most recent Crisis Text Line. Crisis Text Line trains volunteers to support those in crisis via text message. To this day, they have processed over 7 million text messages in two years. How innovative and creative! Her creative mobilization of people and commitment to those in crisis is an encouraging example for all.

These speakers drew me into their life work and I feel a deep level of respect for them and how they are paving a path for empowering women, men and children.

Concluding TEDWomen

After a weekend filled with speakers, activists and artists, whose work is changing lives for the positive, I walk away contemplating my role in leadership, action and community, and the courage it takes to stand out, speak up and stay on a path. My words are simply an attempt to inspire, share wisdom and give a glimpse of my recent experience at TEDWomen 2015. I hope you are motivated to listen to not one, but as many TED talks as you can, and most definitely check out the TED talk with Nia teacher, Lola Manekin. I am privileged to have spent a weekend in the presence of movers and shakers, and am proud to bring the joy of movement of Nia to the world.






Nia at IDEA World Fitness

With the sun shining gorgeously, Stuart and I fly into Los Angeles. We are excited and energized for the IDEA World Fitness Convention. Every year, thousands of people come from around the world to see what is new and hot in the fitness industry, including myself! I am proud to be a part of IDEA and have seen the evolution of the conference over the last 30 years. This year, the hotel is filled with fit, iron strong bodies of all ages, and certainly all levels of fitness. I must say I feel older, perhaps because the first session I am teaching is Wise Moves for the active senior; that’s me! How did I get here so fast?!

 

History with IDEA 

Memories flood my mind, reminding me of the first IDEA Convention where Carlos and I presented Nia. We almost weren’t accepted as we were told we would have to wear shoes. We said “no” and Nia, the first barefoot aerobic exercise program, was introduced to the fitness industry. That was 1985. Over time, IDEA has shifted, expanded, and now includes a mix of yoga, pilates, kickboxing, and masculine driven, loud, energetic exercises. I may not always like where the industry is going, but I believe in it. The industry changes, but one thing does not: people need to move to stay fit and healthy, and never before has there been such an older population of people living longer, and wanting to be active.

This Year

This year, our Nia booth is located by a performance stage, keeping us continually entertained, and giving us the possibility to easily jump into a Bollywood or Barre class. Holding down the Nia booth, we are doing what we love - sharing the joy of Nia over the weekend and teaching two classes. The first day, Caroline Kohles, Janet Hollander and I teach Nia Wise Moves for Seniors. I present the concept, Caroline “the chair experience”, Janet the “in your feet experience”, and I lead the closing meditation "Thank you body.” Well attended, we have around 40 participants, which at the end of the day is significant. The second day is the MOVE I.T. class, demanding a higher amount of energy than Wise Moves. Kelle Oien and I rock it, working together seamlessly. The participants appear to love the class and enjoy themselves! Most importantly, we receive great feedback and praise from the IDEA host for our room.

The rest of the weekend flies by quickly. I run into every person I intended to connect within the fitness industry - the IDEA founders, Kathie and Peter Davis, Kirsten Johnson and Molly Fox from Equinox Fitness, Jill Cressy, and many more. I have a lively chat with Caroline, Kelle and Janet about the Body’s Way, and even enjoy dinner with Nia teachers who drive up from San Diego. They share stories from their students and the healing power of Nia. The power of intent and manifestation works; the weekend feels like a smooth success.

Closing Thoughts

I am proud to be apart of IDEA again. Over the years I have formed a positive relationship with Kathie and Peter Davis and am excited to continue to play a role in upcoming conventions. I would love to see 100 Nia teachers here next year at IDEA, contributing and engaging with the fitness industry. And with more Nia support, I would commit to a larger presentation on a performance stage. Nia brings a much needed element to this convention - it can be easy, soft, perfect for beginners and the aging population, as well as perfect for those who want to "kick it up" and take it to the max. I am left with such gratitude for this industry. Nia can be proud she plays an instrumental part in the shift into greatness for IDEA.

Let’s go to IDEA next year together! Put it on your calendar, July 13-17, 2016.






How Aikido Got Me On Track

I’ve been in business for myself since 1975. I’ve had highs, lows, success, and failure, all of which I know is just part of business and life. Much of my work has been with women; they are my people, my tribe, and the source of much of my success. And yet, I’ve also experienced first-hand what happens when a group of strong, intelligent women turn vengeful, jealous, and spiteful against their teammates. I’ve had to ask myself, “How do I handle this?”
This kind of conflict can happen in any group of people with independent thoughts and opinions. Now, after years of trial and error, I’ve learned how the freedom, cooperation, and collaboration of the Aikido practice can blend with my work to support the flow of positivity, teamwork, and prevention of breakdown.  
Here are my applications of the "Five Principles of Aikido" to life and business:
1. Aikido is the path that joins all paths of the universe throughout eternity; it is the Universal Mind that contains all things and unifies all things.
My body, your body, are a part of the Universe’s nested system that includes: atoms, molecules, cells, tissues, organs, and the body we each inhabit. With this in mind, when I sense conflict, I do everything I can to establish homeostasis before I take action. Knowing we are all connected reduces the perception of separation and conflict.
2. Aikido is the truth taught by the universe and must be applied to our lives on this earth.
By maintaining consistent principles and philosophies across life and work, I gain immense power, confidence, and peace in my choices. I’ve learned to make choices that result in grounding, relaxing, becoming aware, and energy reoriented. When my truths and opinions are aligned, I can stand firm in all choices across the board.
3. Aikido is the principle and the path that joins humanity with the Universal Consciousness.
When I allow joy, peace, and love to guide my choices and decisions, I stand strong in my conviction, even the if people around me are resentful. I allow the Body’s Way to think for me, as it is not guided by the ego, but by love and by a magic unseen. When compassion and love guide my decisions, I cannot doubt the outcome.
 4. Aikido will come to completion when each individual, following his or her true path, becomes one with the universe.
This is why I have chosen not to aggressively “sell” people on training in Nia. I believe body and life training is a deeply personal choice. Only an individual knows when they are ready and willing to break into the depths of their greatness. Understanding that each individual has their own path, skills, and pace is key to communication and the flow of work.
5. Aikido is the path of strength and compassion that leads to the infinite perfection and ever-increasing glory of God.
You may not believe in a God, but this concept can be communicated in many ways. For instance, many crave “god-like” perfection: the sense of peace, achievement, and dynamic ease. Perfection is discovered on a path of strength and compassion, through the process of falling and getting up, time and time again. My strength as a leader comes from those ups and downs of my business. I feel more confident and convicted in my choices because of past failures and success. That is my path. 
Women, men, leaders, mothers, fathers, teachers - we all must make choices, big and small. Allow these Aikido principles to guide you, and always note, learn, and grow from your mistakes.






Oneness Through Aikido

I recently wrote a blog sharing the Aikido principles I apply to my business practices. After a week of teaching Brown Belt here in Portland, and experiencing the wide array of relationships and personalities present, I’ve been inspired to share more Aikido thoughts. In addition to business practice, Aikido has taught me lessons on the relationship between my body, mind, self, and those around me.

Here are three Aikido practices for better relationships...

 

1. Relationship with mind and body

Ki is the force behind all things. It is a binding force of body, mind, emotion, and spirit. Ki keeps our mind and body working together in oneness.

Meditation has helped me harness the power of my mind and direct it appropriately, but sometimes I get caught up in logic, fear, and ego. Aikido taught me the extension of mind is directly connected to the extension of Ki. As I learn to extend my mind, I become acutely aware of everything I am in relationship with: mind, body, soul, and the universe.

2. Relationship with self

One must first learn to control oneself before attempting to harmonize with others. Without balance and control of oneself you cannot understand the most effective technique.

True victory is victory over oneself. Victory does not mean constantly winning and attaining goals. Victory over self is what tempers the ego and builds character. It develops the skill and power to know when to take action and when to sit and wait. Find control by allowing energy to move in and around you. Allow change to be the constant that keeps you awake, alert, and mindfully present for whatever action must take place. This control over self is victory.

3. Relationship with others

Aikido asks you to put yourself in your partner's or opponent's place. Consider how you would feel if you were in the same situation as another.

Look through the eyes of another. See what they see and act accordingly to take care of those around you. This is not to say your opponent won’t get taken down or knocked out in a battle, but the difference in your response is elegance, respect, honor, compassion and love, in place of unconscious aggression.

The Aikido practice of mindfulness, self-control, and honor will grow and strengthen your relationships. Let’s work together for oneness.






Thrive! Take A Dance Break

Manage your daily actions and feelings with movement and you can thrive!

Dancing Through Your Life means turning every move you make into something that feels like a dance. It also means being responsible for bringing dance into your life as the medicine you use to stay happy, calm, relaxed and healthy. By taking as little as sixty-seconds throughout the day to create moments of full-blown, unscripted dance breaks, you can benefit from the medicine of movement. The fact is, you’re wired to move. Movement is the body’s medicine that strengthens and heals. It develops the brain and body, and the best news of all, it is completely organic, natural and free!


Discover Your Dance

Every body can dance. Think of dance as moving in your own way and in your own time, as something you do to keep your body, mind, emotions and spirit alert, agile, strong, flexible, mobile, stable and young. Whether it’s dealing with depression, self-esteem, stress, weight loss or anxiety, brief bursts of dance are pleasure-time release capsules to make you instantly look and feel better.

How To Do It

Stay connected to the sensation of peace in the body. When tensions arise, breath becomes shallow, the jaw or hands get tight, or if the mind gets in the way of experiencing life as joyful, take a Nia dance break. No matter where you are, get up and dance full-on. Dance for at least sixty-seconds, and if you have access to music, put on your favorite song and let it rip for the entire song. Take every opportunity to use dancing as medicine!

To get the most out of your dance break—

Don’t think, just move. Tap into the power of pre-verbal communication and speak what you feel through your dance, using every part of your body, even your voice.
Affirm the changes you feel after dancing by letting the body know you have received the medicine and gifts of moving by saying, “Thank you body. I feel (speak out loud what you notice has shifted).”
Invite others to take dance breaks with you; consciously dance to shift energy in and around you!

Remember, thrive! You can use movement as medicine anywhere you are.






The Hands That Touch The Earth

How often do you really feel your feet? Can you sense the soles of your feet and each individual toe on the ground? Do you workout to condition and strengthen your feet? Do you consciously use your feet? Do you like your feet? Get to know them, and you can have a healthy relationship with them for a lifetime.

As one of the most sensitive parts of the body, your feet create a foundation for your whole physical structure. Your feet not only support you from the ground up, but also speak to you through the voice of pain and pleasure to move safely, comfortably, and efficiently. If we listen, we can learn to ease tension from our lower back, strengthen the abdominal muscles with dynamic support from underneath and behind, improve our ability to breathe deeper and fuller, and bring aliveness and mobility to the spine.

Think about this…

Your foot is a masterful network of approximately 33 joints, 26 bones and more than 100 muscles, tendons and ligaments. You have more than 7,000 nerve endings in each foot, constantly sending messages throughout your body. Today, you will take about 6,000 steps. By age 70, your feet will have logged over 70,000 miles.

When your feet are healthy you move freely, comfortably and efficiently; your body weight can evenly spread across the entire surface of your feet, and your toes can lengthen and relax, leaving you feeling balanced, centered and supported from the ground up.

Build a relationship with your feet!

●Listen and sense what your feet are saying to you. Become aware of the sensations of pain and pleasure-signals that make it possible to choose healthy movement from the base up.

●Move your feet like your hands. Wiggle, spread, lengthen, yawn, and stretch them to keep them healthy.

●Spend a portion of each day in bare feet. Without shoes we can begin to strengthen our feet, increase the foot’s circulation and dexterity, decrease foot cramping and even heighten the arches of our feet.

●Give your feet some love. Wash and massage them. Give yourself a pedicure. Thank them for all that they do.

Feet create a foundation for your whole body. When your feet are healthy, you have a base you can count on to do everything you want to do. With a solid base beneath you, you can relax, let loose, move and live more fully.






The Most Wonderful Time of Year

It’s the most wonderful time of the year, and today feels like one of those beautiful days. I slept eleven hours after packing up the booth at the Green Festival. This was after standing and dancing in the booth the entire weekend, which happened to be in a very cold convention hall. So cold, I kept my hat and coat on. Stuart and Eddy unloaded the van while I walked to Jakes in downtown Portland for a glass of red wine and the happy hour hamburger. Stuart met me there and we talked about how this convention was a trip back in time, watching every Nia routine playing in the booth, and falling in love with the work I have been gifted to do and share. 
Thanks to Karri Winn and Nia, my presentation “The Body’s Way – Sustainability in the Body” was recommended to the festival coordinators. They jumped at the opportunity to have us as a sponsor and invited me to speak. We had a Nia pavilion with plenty of room to dance and displayed the complete line of Nia DVD's. We highlighted Moving to Heal, Nia, and FloorPlay. Each teacher brought their talent and energy. Stuart and Eddy made the Nia booth look great.
My favorite moments:

     Watching old Nia videos on the 70-inch flat screen TV and working out to my own work—I had so many hairdos.
     Hanging out, and talking to everyone about life stuff.
     The attendees who were deaf dancing with us.
     Having the opportunity to share my philosophy on The Body’s Way as the way to create sustainability in the body.
     Dancing as a student with the Nia teachers leading the demos.
     Meeting old friends, past teachers and students who stopped by the booth.
     My Angel Card reading.

After dinner and the Green Festival, we headed home to our house where we were met by the glory of the lights out front, taking me back to being five years old and feeling the excitement of Santa coming. Inside the dimly lit kitchen, garland is strung atop the cabinets, wreaths line the dining room, and two beautiful trees stand in the living room decorated with ornaments collected over the years. Above the altar and fireplace more garland and over sized candy canes with bows wait for the celebration of this glorious day. For me, it too is the most glorious day of the year.






The Creative Practice

As a highly creative person who loves new and different, I am blessed to have a body-centered practice to keep me present in my body. I am blessed that I have Nia and routines. The structure and form of following a routine has allowed me to grow and create more than I ever could have imagined. I repeat the same process, and this is what makes it easy and efficient in exploring my creativity. The connection to my body provides me a direct path I can use to re-explore anything over and over again without getting lost. What my body remembers, my mind often forgets. I love how creating a somatic experience is the path for revealing steps that bring me to a destination.

In the creative process, every time I step back on the same path, repeat the same steps, a new part of me is revealed. Inside each of us lives many bodies that offer endless new experiences for new discoveries, yet it is the same body we go to. Rumi said, “Come, come again, no matter how many times you’ve come, come again.” This is the mantra I use to be with my Nia routines, my husband, children and the Nia principles. Come again; if it’s good for the body, it’s good for me!






Self-Reflecting to Sense "Yes!"

Self-reflect, self-reference, self-know. It takes a lot of selfing around to become wise. It takes practice to self-refer to my body, especially when connecting to feelings, sensations, and thoughts are sometimes painful. Self-referring involves courage, and it takes skill. My master self knows it is all about sensing, evaluating and making choices that add to living my life grandly. Referring to self twenty-four seven is easy for my body, as it lives with itself non-stop. I on the other hand can turn on and off, tap in and out. Upon reflection, I’d better do it the body’s way and stay in, listen and self-refer to my body twenty-four seven. 
When I listen to my body and the voice that says, “Let’s keep doing this or let’s stop now,” I find new parts of me come alive. Guided by internal forces, inner voice, and by the sensation of “yes,” I can’t go wrong. I move towards releasing old habits. My body loves the yes choices and I do too. We both feel the love when I make these kinds of conscious choices.






The Art of Listening

"Listening is an attitude of the heart, a genuine desire to be with another which both attracts and heals." J. Isham

Alchemy offers the possibility to transmute something ordinary into something extraordinary. Like any good alchemical art, the alchemy of Listening offers a magical process of transformation. Our sense of hearing is a vital part of our lives. Hearing affects how we relate to the world and others. But, listening is different than hearing. Hearing is the act of perceiving sound by the ear, so unless you are hearing-impaired, hearing simply happens. “Listening,” is a conscious choice requiring awareness, focus and practice.

The "Art of Listening" is a Nia practice that turns listening into an art form. Nia teaches us to listen to the details and to pay attention to the silence and sound within the music. All sound comes from silence. Listen with full attention to silence and you will hear the deeper details of sound. We practice listening in a state of being relaxed, alert and waiting (RAW). In RAW, there is no inner-dialogue, no seeking, no agenda. By consciously focusing on the details of the music while remaining relaxed, alert and waiting to receive, we develop intimate listening skills and the ability to recognize more details within the music. Intimacy is all about the depth and the details.

Listening well improves communication. By being better listeners, we become better communicators. As we dance through life, the Art of Listening serves us in all our relationships, beginning with ourselves. It helps us listen and respond to the internal ‘voices’ of our body, so we know when we need to rest, be active, stretch, lie down, drink water, eliminate, etc. We learn to listen to the inner guidance of our own unique spirit, leading to greater satisfaction and joy. As we learn to relax, smell the moment, and truly listen, we open ourselves to receive more depth and detail. In this way, we can communicate more fully and intimately in all of our relationships. By simply learning to Listen, we can transform the ordinary into the spectacular.

Practice these 6 little magic steps to help master the Art of Listening.

• Practice embracing silence and stillness while listening to others.

• Receive the sound of your own voice as you speak.

• Focus on one sound and try to track it against a variety of other sounds.

• Stimulate your ears by listening to new types of music.

• As you dance, notice how different types of music inspire different movements.

• Track tone and melody, notice how they affect the mood or feeling in the body and mind.






Standing in Power

Home

When people ask me where I live, I say Portland, Oregon, but I know that’s not the truth. I live in my body. My body is my home.

When I woke up this morning, I asked my body home what it wanted. It said, “Cut your hair.” I did. Then it said, “Let’s shower with Jo Malone.” No, not the human Jo but the body wash. I did. Then it said, “Let’s get into some fabulous underwear”. We did. Then it said, "How about the black pants and boots?” Really? If you know me this is no surprise, as I have many pairs of black boots, and most often, rain or shine, you’ll find me in them. The point is, asking my body home what it wants and needs is one of the ways I stay healthy and well. I believe the communication, the way I talk to my body home makes a difference in the way I, “we” live together. After all, we’re a team, a partnership in life. That’s why I say, learn to love you!

New York

I’m in the midst of writing not one but several books. That’s the way I roll. When I thought about where I could go to write, I first thought of Miami, then New York. New York won because the energy I feel at my back and at my heels is the voice of “fast-faster”. When I’m in New York, I sense the universe squeezing the tube of knowledge out the crown of my head. What comes out flows through my fingertips, turning conscious ideas into words scripted on paper. I often have to tell the universe to slow down, even stop. I always do this when I’m going to sleep. Otherwise, I’m fully committed to listening and transcribing. I’ve told God/Goddess/All that I’m in this for the long haul. In many ways, I feel blessed that I love to listen to my body and the Universe speak. I love to transcribe and to create my magic on paper. Now home, I can tell you New York was the perfect place for me. I got to hang with my daughter. I got to write. I got to be in the amazing city of angels.

Are You Ready?

Ever have a thought come and go and not be able to get back to it? It happens to me all the time. That’s because I love creating anew. Most of the time, I forget because I’m not paying attention. I don’t want to really pay attention. I’m thinking about something new I can create and do. That’s what happened today. I was avoiding a subject. Funny thing, it is new to me.

I’ve been writing a book called Awakening the New Feminine Spirit since 1992. The inspiration for this book came when, as a young woman, my heart was caught by someone’s dream. An art exhibit: The Birth Project by Judy Chicago. To make a long story short (you’ll have to read the book), I decided that, like Judy, I would create something revolutionary to expand the thinking about women on the planet. I thought I was doing this with my impending book. My book’s focus, for women, shifted to include men and women. Needless to say, this threw a wrench in my plans. It opened up a can of amazing worms that are worming their way into my body, mind, emotions, and spirit, and into my writing.

The encouragement to write this book for men and women came from my husband Stuart, and then from my friend Nurit who lives in Jerusalem. Both agreed that what I was writing about was not only a feminine issue it was a shared problem of men and women. My intent of working to heal the planet by embracing the feminine energy could not be effective if I did not include men and women. I agreed, and once I did, two things happened. 1) In my life, I found myself being asked to step into my feminine and masculine roles in a stronger, clearer way. 2) The two roles: masculine and feminine became something different from what I knew and understood.

Saying “no” has become a much more conscious and mindful action, and the fallout associated with this is making me stronger. Saying “yes” has also become a more conscious and mindful action. It too does not always satisfy those around me.

I’ve had to make hard choices and decisions to protect my business, space, body, and life, and the surprise is that the people around me think my partner is making these decisions for me. I’ve had to deal with criticism and anger from people about my choices and decisions, and I’ve had to stand my ground.

I’m realizing that not wearing the pants means taking them off completely, not one leg in and one leg out. I used to think I was surrendering to my partner. NOT! I am now. For the first time in my life, I am in partnership with my yin and yang, and with my partner's Yin and Yang. I’m having fun. I’m finding a new model for me to relate to my woman/man, and to my man’s man/woman. I call it WO-MAN. I’m beginning to actually do what I say, to “See the spirit behind the eyes, not the dress or pants." Use your power, yin and yang to create harmony and peace, goodness.






Beauty and the Beholder

Beauty is a characteristic, a sensation, a look, and a feeling available to us all. It’s one of those things defined differently by everyone. It is a subjective comment and opinion of the mind in the eye of the beholder. Herein lies the problem - the beholder. This is the one whose judgmental eye casts opinion on what is and what is not beautiful. I hear it all the time. She, it, he, this, or that is or is not beautiful. If beauty is something that exists only in the mind, then I ask, what is beautiful to you? If we begin to contemplate what is beautiful, I believe the eyes through which beauty is seen will transform into eyes that see beauty as medicine and as something that lives in and around us. Know what makes you feel beautiful and bring it into your body and life. Stand for beauty in and around you and you make the world look and feel better.






Quality Over Quantity

I always tell people it’s far more what you put into a move than the number of repetitions you do. Quality-over-quantity. Today, I decided to put this into practice and build the intensity of my day gradually, respecting the adaptation and acclimation within my body and life. I applied it to everything from brushing my teeth, to getting dressed, to driving to work. Doing so, I found myself shifting the quality of all my movements. I moved slower and how I felt doing them was incredible. It’s okay to ease up and it’s even important. Slow is good as it develops heightened sensory awareness. 
When I allow myself to ebb and flow, heeding my body’s cues, I get a lot further faster and, I am loving my body. I know I can snap through my day and my workout, but I also know that using just the right amount of energy and effort, and doing just the right number of repetitions for my body and life is what works. So today I felt as if I never wasted any of the precious time of life. The investment and time I put into experiencing quality over quantity provided me with many rewards, like still having energy to hang with my girlfriends in the evening.






The Global Shift from Me to We

Yesterday my daughter sent me this text: “Don’t you hate the days when in a split second you’re in love with something, and in an instant you hate it. One minute it’s the best ever, and the next, you wonder what attracted you?” Her comment made me stop and wonder if God had somehow made a mistake. I jokingly say that He/She made a mistake because of the skin thing. You know, how it grows, hangs, sags. I ask, “Why?” I wonder if there’s something about this skin thing and its continual growing that I’m not getting. Maybe someone can explain why the longer I live, the more my skin grows. I have a hard time accepting this, and from time to time find myself tugging on my facial skin to get a glimpse of me from the past.

Two things really bug me about skin. First, as skin grows it gets heavy. Second, I don’t like a loose fit. I feel loose skin doesn’t do justice to the beautiful bone, muscle, and connective tissue design underneath. After my daughter’s comment to me, I started wondering about the endocrine system and skin. After all, it influences almost every cell, organ, and function in the body, even my daughter’s mood swings. So maybe the endocrine system is the reason my skin continues to grow! Did it not get the message, “Stop”? Who knows, I figure if my skin didn’t grow I wouldn’t know time was running out, and I know time is nothing to waste. This is why I say, “The body is a gift, and no matter what, it needs me to hang in, even if the hanging literally means hanging with loose skin! It’s not all about me, it’s about we.






Balance Your Body

It’s so easy to forget that I have not only a front body, but a back body, and not only can I lengthen upward and downward, but outward. Today, I decided to balance the front, back and sides, with the in and out moves using my hands and arms. Wow! I had forgotten that when I bring my elbows back and behind me I generate more staying power and create greater muscle balance. And when I reach my hands upward and open up, I can feel an extension of energy running out, beyond my fingertips. I had fun drawing my arms back into the center of my body after reaching out to recharge my motion. I felt so much more relaxed. 

I have learned to lengthen up and down, upward through the crown of my head, and down through my feet, but I also can lengthen outward through my bones and through my front and back body. This is how I tone my body all the way from my feet to my tailbone, through the crown of my head. I strengthen my abdomen and back, and at the same time activate my legs and arms. I have to regularly remind myself that my whole body is accessible, moving from the front, from the back, upward, downward and outward!

Try it today! Imagine yourself moving outward from your back body and follow your body as it guides you. Notice how your movement shifts and what parts of your body become more accessible.






The Joy of Mindfulness

When it comes to being mindful, I remember how remembering is not my skill! My skill is in allowing the master mind of the universe to talk to me-through me. It's noisy, and there's a lot to say. I listen—mindfully, with every cell in my body. Listening makes me feel connected, safe.

I've come to learn that being mindful is being as empty as I can be. Void of the chatter that can build up if I keep my thoughts in and contained. Work with me, and you'll hear me say, "Get in and out of the mind as fast as you can so that Sensory IQ (body) can lead the way.” Don't get me wrong. The mind is a wonderful thing, and it's even better when it compliments what the body already knows and is telling you. It's not the body or the mind that is ever the problem. It's the person in the body and how they use their mind power. This is where the split between being mindful and being ignorant and unconscious occurs. In the human being, this is the split that causes people to do bad things. Hurtful things are done out of "fear," which is one of those unmindful, powerful emotions that creates freeze brain and crazy reactions. Fight or flight, flight or fight, the body takes over, and things get out of control.

As someone who has spent the past forty years studying the body and how to be mindful (conscious), I'm always searching for answers. One of my favorite people to go to for answers is Michio Kaku,  author of a recent favorite book of mine, "The Future of the Mind."  The knowledge that Kaku shares often goes far beyond what I comprehend. No matter. Through the pages, I feel his mindful intent and passion for finding answers to the age-old question, "What's it all about?"  Reading his books, I'm always left hopeful, excited, and confident that "we, the people" are going to leave the world a better place for the next generation. How will we do this? By being mindful.

Mindful to stop wasting water, and finding ways to take what covers 2/3 of the planet (water) to make sure everyone on the planet has clean drinking water.

Mindful to make sure that the one out of every nine people on the planet who go to bed hungry, go to bed fed with healthy food.

Mindful that we stop obesity, and that we bring exercise back into schools, giving kids a chance!

Mindful of recycling everywhere.

Mindful, we are part of the universe, part of the planet. We, our body, made of atoms, molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organ systems, and organisms called people have the capacity to do great things when we are mindful. Conscious. Loving. Compassionate. Caring. It takes one mind to change the world. One dream. One thought. One idea. One question. 

What if your body was the most important thing you owned?  What if small things could make a big difference? What if you could make a difference? I know I believe in better. Do you?

Ultimately, I see mindfulness as a love affair–with life, with reality and imagination, with the beauty of your own being, with your heart and body and mind, and with the world. — Jon Kabat-Zinn from Mindfulness for Beginners: Reclaiming the Present Moment–and Your Life






Creativity is Alive in the City

To get me up at 3:00 AM in Portland, there has to be a good reason. New York is it! I left Thursday for my favorite city, and flew out at 6:00 AM. After landing, I got inspired, called an agency I'd like to work with for my new book and wrote a letter in five minutes, sent it for editing to Katie and Stuart, and sent it off all in about 45 minutes. Teamwork. I had a drink at the bar at the Waldorf, my go to hotel, as always meeting so many people from around the world. Then to dinner last night at one of my favorite restaurants, Cafe Luxembourg, with trainer/producer Caroline Kohles and long-time Nia student Joanne Edgar. We talked about Nia New York, the training and my trip back in March. I woke up and treated myself to a massage. Yummy. I feel relaxed and inspired to write today. Then, off to Starbucks (they know me here, as it's my regular spot) for my coffee - short Pike, one pump chocolate with whip cream. 
I feel alive in this city. While some people may feel stressed by the crowds and noise, I thrive on the stimulation. I feel like a kid in New York, with the whole world, and my whole life in front of me. At 65 this is a good thing. I feel at home here with all the choices, the colors, sounds, and abundance of creative energy and creative people who want to achieve the best. I love the competitive atmosphere in New York. It's healthy for me. If you can make it here, you CAN make it anywhere. When I re-read this, I think my body is saying this to me! If I can make it in my body, I can make it anywhere. I love people watching and listening to the many conversations of people's dreams about what they will do, what they will create. I get excited doing what I love. I am blessed. I get to share what I love and stand for what I believe in: the ability for every body to feel better, move better, look better, and be a better person. One of the things I enjoy the most is teaching others how to use the language of Nia to heal and condition the body. Healing and conditioning are partners.

I feel there's room for me to be me in New York. More room to spread my wings. Speak my mind. Dream.






Q&A with Debbie Rosas, The Body's Way

Who is Debbie Rosas?
Debbie Rosas is an entrepreneur and creative visionary who has designed programs addressing the four parts of a human being — body, mind, emotion and unique spirit, through wisdom and intelligence of The Body’s Way. A being cannot awaken through the mind alone. The Body’s Way encourages participants to listen and awaken to the inherent and profound wisdom in each and every body. 

Debbie’s primary mission and work is to assist people in awakening their own emotional, spiritual and physical intelligence and empowerment through The Body’s Way. Debbie teaches courses and workshops worldwide, and is the founder of a daily practicum called the Nia Technique which is taught and practiced in over 60 countries.

Is There a Science Behind Debbie’s Trainings, Workshops, and Courses?
Debbie is highly trained in anatomy and science; everything she teaches is based on the scientific design of the body and can be validated by the body’s science. However the focus is on Sensation Science, an applied science called The Body's Way. While everyone follows the same base map to get healthy, as people begin to hear the intrinsic wisdom of their own body, they get excited and begin to take care of their body, living and moving in healthier ways. 

This is teaching self-empowerment through what is called, the Voice of the Body. This is a voice that shares the messages of a body, teaching people how to be in their body in healthy ways that improve the form and function of their lives. People develop an intimate relationship with their body, finding inspiring moments and movements that bring pleasure. This brings motivation for engagement, change, and sustained practice.

Where Does Debbie Work?
While Debbie travels extensively teaching workshops and trainings internationally, her central office and team is headquartered in Portland, Oregon. Beneath this one roof is housed NiaStudio, a beautiful international training center, a record label called NiaSounds, and a clothing company called NiaWear. All offerings are integral to the mission, bringing forward experiences and products that inspire movement, health and well-being.

Where are The Body’s Way and Nia Technique taught?
Debbie’s lectures, presentations, and smaller workshops on The Body’s Way can be heard at medical, wellness, and healing conferences globally. 

Daily, The Body’s Way and Nia Technique practices are taught in Universities, medical centers, community centers, yoga studios, health clubs, and even traditional exercise studios. Adaptable to peoples’ needs, you can find it in top-notch workout clubs, such as Equinox in New York City, to hard core centers like Gold's Gym, in spas like Lake Austin Spa, but you will also find it in medical centers. 

Nia helps people in recovery who are dealing with life-threatening illnesses and afflictions such as cancer, Parkinson's, arthritis or fibromyalgia. Because the nature of Nia is joyful and pleasurable, people are motivated to get into their body and seek good sensations that bring them more pleasure in their lives and ultimately pathways to healing. 

When Did Debbie Develop These Concepts?
Debbie Rosas co-founded the Nia Technique in the early 80s, and over time awakened to the profound wisdom of the body as she continually practiced, taught, evolved and developed the concepts and practicum of The Body’s Way.

Is The Body’s Way and Nia Technique a Wellness, Fitness or Lifestyle Based?
The Body’s Way of moving or encouraging ones individual body knowledge and voice, combined with the science and broad spectrum of movements in the Nia Technique classes and courses, provides a wellness toolbox that connects the body, mind, emotion and spirit in daily life.

Helping people find their body health is not by working with a limited number of muscle groups, but by working from the inside out in a variety of ways. Nia contains a variety of movement forms — tai chi for moving like a slow dance; Duncan Dance for uplifting, childlike movements; components of jazz improvisation, which tend to be playful; Yoga, where people pay attention to the alignment of bones, and modern dance where people create and express shapes in space. The healing arts of Moshe Feldenkrais, and the Alexander Technique give people tools to begin the process of self-healing. This encourages making changes that improve alignment, posture and functioning with growing self-empowered awareness. This integral approach works on a number of levels that goes beyond the physical form.

Are programs designed for men, women, teens or kids?
Everything we do is based on The Body’s Way, meaning everything is based on the design of the individual body and how it needs to move. This dictates the function of what you do when and how you move. 

What is unique about the language used?
All language is designed to enhance the physical sensory experience and get people in their bodies. Most of life has the opposite effect today and as we know, we must be present to win or awaken. The words we use integrate the left and right brain, the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual, are specifically chosen to support people in moving internally, so they guide the movement as if listening to a personal guide or trainer.

What kinds of comments do you hear from your clients?
The book, The Nia Technique, is filled with personal stories that reflect the fitness and healing benefits of Nia. Comments include: Nia gives me more energy. Nia has made me more relaxed and easier to be around. Nia has made me feel more comfortable in my body and life. I feel more alive than ever before. A comment we hear regarding fitness and healing is that Nia has allowed me to do things the doctor said were impossible. Men discover grace and agility. People say: I lost the joy of moving that I used to feel, but now I have gained confidence because of the martial arts.

Are their courses, workshops and trainings?
Yes! Contact us for information on talks, presentations and workshops on The Body’s Way or about becoming an Nia teacher or trainer.

Contact: 
918 SW Yamhill, 3rd Floor, Suite 301 
Portland, OR 97205
Phone: (503) 245-9886 
Toll-free:(800) 762-5762 
Fax: (503) 245-2159
Email: pr@debbierosas.com






The Body's Way, Awareness Lives in You

The Body's Way is a tool used to gather information for moving, healing and developing personally. It is a method of using the body in accord with its specific design and structure. It involves looking at the body as it really is, instead of viewing it in an idealized, conceptualized way. Looking, reveals the complex structure and specific order and organization of the body. What you see becomes a map to follow. What you gather is an understanding to move efficiently, freely and to live life more harmoniously. 

As a practice, The Body’s Way involves looking at any part of your anatomy and viewing each part as a visual geometric design. It involves listening to each part, to its voice. We call this The Voice of The Body. The Voice of The Body is poetic language revealing name and function, and how it is specifically designed to be experienced and used. From tiny atoms to visible structures, the body is an artistic expression with chemical composition. By listening, our cells, tissues, organs, systems and structures will reveal how best to use any part of the body. 

Awareness lives in you. It moves through your physical body and speaks to you as the voice of the body. Each of your body parts has its own voice that you can learn to listen and respond to. Each voice is determined by the design of each body part reflecting, The Body’s Way. At every moment of every hour you can follow the path of the Body’s Way to become aware. Listen to the voice of your body. Feel. Sense. Stop for a moment and notice what is going on in your body. Imagine being asked, “How do you feel today?” and responding, “ Well, my diaphragm is a little tight today, my breath seems rapid, and my face is hot.” 

By being aware, you can learn to adapt to each moment in life, altering what you do so your body and life become more harmonious and pleasurable. Awareness is not exclusive but multi-dimensional. Right now you can notice the sensation and temperature of your hands and the sensations and temperature of your face, all at the same time.

The beauty of listening and self-awareness is that it not only helps you become fit faster, but it will also help you self-heal. Self-healing is another teaching of The Body’s Way. Self-healing arises out of developing an intimate and direct relationship to your body and the present moment. It requires noticing what hurts and making subtle changes in what you do, so you feel pleasure. The sign of pleasure is the voice of the body telling you, “You are following The Body’s Way!” 

It is no longer enough to merely cognitively analyze as a way to learn; for much of what we sense and feel cannot be measured or seen. When we open to The Body’s Way we open to life. To a world of feeling where exploring \ through the body teaches us to use our spirit, emotions and mind in expansive, inclusive ways. 

The Body’s Way Tips for Real People

●	Feel and sense comfort in your body while moving; connect to your own physical sensations to relate what your body needs to feel more pleasure while in motion. 
●	Create pleasure in your body by seeking joy, explore different ways of moving and living that add meaning to your life.
●	Trigger awareness by settling into the sensation of your body at breakfast, lunch and dinner.
●	After waking in the morning and assessing what needs self-healing in your body, stimulates those areas by integrating movement into your normal daily activities.
●	Listen to the voices of the body and give your body and brain a chance to notice what is happening before you increase the speed, complexity and intensity of life or workout.
●	Move with the least possible effort or strain, never forcing.
●	Change what you do so that your movement is efficient and effective for your body, mind, emotions and spirit.
●	Balance yourself from the ground up, from your feet, the base.
●	Maintain resilient and elastic muscles, by becoming aware of using the muscles’ pumping action to help remove toxins from your body and ensure metabolism.






Dancing Through life, The Body's Way

The business of managing a body and life is complex and delicate. It requires addressing the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual energy with the correct tools. Everything you do when it comes to your body and your life counts, even the small things. The following are small conscious acts to do daily to help your body and life become more enjoyable.

Step 1: Set Your Focus and Intent 

Approach: Direct your mind and attention, as this defines what you will achieve.

Action: Managing your mind.

Each morning, before you get out of bed, open your eyes slowly. Activate your consciousness and become mindfully present. Smell the moment and get connected to the world from inside your body. Then ask yourself, “What do I need to focus on today, with the intent to bring more pleasure, joy and deeper meaning into my life. Mindfully getting ready for your day takes a second!

Step 2: Step In and Activate Your Sensory IQ 

Approach: Prepare for the day. Stepping in connects you to the present moment, to the NOW. Activating Sensory IQ is how you connect to NOW through sensation. 

Action: Managing sensations of pain and pleasure.                           

As you rise up to get out of bed, do so slowly. Connect to sensation and listen to the voices of your body, or the language of sensation. Stand up, stop, and before you take a step, affirm, “I am stepping into my day, choosing the sensation of pleasure as my guide.” As you move, respond to any pain sensation and adjust your movement so that discomfort turns into pleasure. Move in ways that awaken your joints and muscles. Be guided by Sensory IQ as you reach for your toothbrush, towel your body dry, or get dressed. Use all morning actions to remain focused and connected to the sensation of pleasure. 

Step 3: Warm Up and Commit to Being Fully In    

Approach: Consciously activate flow of energy.

Action: Managing how you commit.

Once up and fully moving about, consciously commit to your day. Before doing anything, say “I’m in” out loud and sense what it means to fully commit, from head to toe. Physically be present to each experience by connecting to the five sensations. Reach for a glass and feel flexibility, the sensation of energy moving out and along bones. Bend down to pick up your briefcase or purse and feel strength, the sensation of energy packing in and squeezing against the bones. Shake and shimmy while waiting for the teapot to boil and feel mobility, the sensation of energy and body parts in constant motion. Sit on the floor to put your shoes on and feel agility, the sensation of energy and body parts stopping and starting. Lie on your back and put your pants on and feel stability, the sensation of sustaining a posture still to integrate strength, flexibility, mobility and agility power.

Step 4: Get Moving and Keep Moving Throughout Your Day

Approach: Integrate dance while addressing personal and professional commitments.

Action: Managing your time with your personal and professional energy.

All day, dance using each move and series of movements to address what you need to do while also addressing your personal needs. Move and also be still. When you stop, pause and connect to the sensation of stillness. Meditate for a moment at the elevator, or at the water fountain. When you look, see everything in your life as art. See the shapes, colors, texture, faces, and objects around you as inspiration that personally feeds you. Dance, and professionally and personally feel the joy of moving as a celebration of being alive. When you speak, express yourself fully and emotionally. Use your arms, hands, voice and passion to be heard and understood. 

Step 5: Cool Down and Revisit Your Daily Actions 

Approach: Slow down, re-center, balance and harmonize.

Action: Managing the energy, the cause and effect of your actions, your day.

As you near the end of any action, event or day, sit or stand quietly and go inside your body. Ask your body to be with you as you walk down memory lane, and to feed you with physical sensations that help you recall the day’s events. Notice how you feel, the effects from what you did, and what was the cause. Make a conscious choice to affirm new action by saying “I can and will do things differently so every act in my life is peaceful.” 

Step 6: Add The Element of Play All Day 

Approach: Bring play into the day, into evening, into night. 

Action: Managing the element of play as a norm.

Seek moments of play throughout the day. Walk to the bathroom and swish your hips, as if you had a grass skirt on. Hum or sing as you drive the car. Make sound and playfully release unwanted tension. Laugh out loud for sixty seconds. Get down on the floor and make shapes with your body. Stretch and move on the floor in ways that turn the mind off and turn pleasurable sensation on. Create sixty seconds of play after a meeting, before lunch or before bed. 

Step 7: Consciously Step Out of Your Day

Approach: Prepare for what’s next.

Action: Managing endings.

Saying good-by closes circles and prepares you for the next event. When you consciously end things, step out in peace and step into the next event peacefully. At the end of anything, a meal, a conversation, a bath or letter writing, take a few seconds to stop and close the circle. End by saying, “Good bye” or “See you again soon.”






Exploring Our Universal Body

As I go deep into exploring the body through its anatomy, dissecting layer by layer, I have come to believe the body is the perfect suit, Gucci perfection. The body is the only garment designed to adapt and change to fit the needs of you, the one wearing the suit. Even when the adaptation is dysfunctional, the body will do what it has to do to assist you, to grow, change, and adapt to fit who you are, and who you are becoming. Overfeed it, the body will stretch and make room to fill. Starve it, and the body will shrink, revealing more of what’s inside. As you age, the body will age with you, as gracefully as it can, which is generally based on how you have lived your life.

The body has no other choice but to walk “with” and accompany you through your life, dealing with the choices and decisions you make. Dedicated to you, and to living, thriving and surviving, your body is in it, with you, to win it. The “it” is life, and there is no way to go through life without a body. It’s your body spaceship suit. Perfectly designed, your skin fleece-lined coat keeps what is inside dry from the rain, and at the same time, it keeps you wet inside, making it possible for all of the parts in you to float, slide and glide over and around each other. An elegant architectural design, no other form can come close to matching in accommodating stability and mobility, the power and grace of the body. In motion all the time, your lungs filling and emptying, your heart beating, with blood and the life force that makes you “you” is swimming you through life twenty-four seven. It is a sedentary lifestyle that will kill you.

So today, I say, “Get up and dance around for 2 minutes” and enjoy the gift of a body moving, and your body living for and “with” you. Till death do you part. Here’s to making the living the very best.






Sustainability of Living in The Body

Sustainable.  We hear the term on nearly a daily basis in regard to our environment, economics, politics and culture.  But, what does it mean to be sustainable?  In its broadest sense, it means to use a resource without using it up or permanently damaging it.  It refers to the capacity to endure and thrive.

We must strive for sustainable food practices to feed the world’s population. The need for sustainable water management is being felt all over the planet.  Protecting our oceans, the air we breathe and the health of all people must be a priority.  

And, I believe there is an equally fundamental need for sustainability, one too often overlooked or neglected.  In Nia, our goal is to find sustainability in the body.  To fully engage our body’s resources for sensation, movement and pleasure, without causing harm through our actions.  How do we do it? By following the Body’s Way.

Nia gives me the opportunity to validate things I hear and read as truths by sensing the truth in my body. I have learned to appreciate what science has proven to be true, and I have also learned to appreciate and respect what my body tells me is true.

It is the voice of the body, sensation, my questioning spirit and, my analytical mind that make it possible for me to feel confident in knowing that what I am doing and what I am teaching is “right” and valuable to people’s body, minds, emotions, spirit and, to the overall sustainability of the body.






The Road to Self Love

I have learned one of the most important credos any woman can follow is to “mother the mother within”. This mothering begins by being honest with yourself, by getting to know yourself, and by developing skills to mother. I believe if you don’t know what you’re mothering you can’t nurture it. I had to learn to mother myself to become a good mother. I had to learn to love who I was by forgiving myself, by being patient, and by teaching myself to grow up to be a good mother. Healer, heal thyself. Mother, mother thyself!

Learning to mother the mother within us is how we will keep the great myth of the human soul alive: Love is the only answer. This is one of the reasons I feel telling stories and myths, my story and yours is so valuable. Myths, stories, they remind us, teach us, and give us the opportunity to rewrite the story. They reveal to us parts of ourselves and reawaken in us a connection to things we deeply understand and feel at a deep spiritual level. Like children, we hunger for stories, as they remind us we can dream, create, and live the life our heart and soul desire.

Mothers are the daughters who give voice to mothering wisdom. They tell the stories of sacrifices they made, of their courage, and of the love that broke open their hearts and tore them apart. Their stories, a reminder, show women a path. They provide us with hope and motivation. They teach and guide us, and give us the freedom to change the story.

Some women have birthed children while others have raised children. Still others have mothered life in unique and extraordinary ways. Out of love we are born, and out of love we shall die. In the meantime, we can mother the mother within, illuminate and raise the value and pleasure we experience as mothers in motherhood and mothers of life. We can become magnificent ancestors of the feminine spirit.






Gloria Steinem + Freedom

I love that America stands for freedom. As I see it, freedom is one of the most precious things we need to protect, and with freedom comes the responsibility to not hurt ourselves or others, to do better not worse, to build not destroy.

Last Friday, while flying home from New York I watched three movies in an attempt to catch up on all the movies nominated for the Academy Awards. One of the movies I didn’t expect to like was Trumbo, with Bryan Cranston. It is a movie about a successful Hollywood screenwriter who struggles to survive professionally after being blacklisted in the late 1940s as a communist. This movie made me feel sad and ashamed of a part of me, and of humanity. Ignorance stems from fear. I watched as fear worked as a powerful force to destroy good people who are not bad, just different. People whose only crime was a different belief.

After watching the movie I was reminded how cowardly I am sometimes. I stay quiet because of my position as a leader of a company with people following me, trusting me, and believing in me. I stay quiet for fear of retaliation, for opening my mouth and revealing a part of my soul. The freedom I love needs me to speak up. So I will.

When it comes to peacefully standing for what you believe in and speaking your mind, in my opinion no one does it better than Gloria Steinem. The world’s most cherished and hated feminist icon, Gloria was recently interviewed by Federica Marchionni, the CEO of Lands’ End for the company’s “Legend Series,” featuring people “who have made a difference in their industries and in the world.” Who could be better than Gloria? What the company didn’t expect was the fallout from the people who love and trust Lands’ End. People who feel this company stands for values they believe in. 

Being in business I can tell you that no matter how hard you try to analyze your market, somewhere you’ll fall short. Lands’ End apparently fell short with putting Gloria in their Spring Catalog. After customers overwhelmed the company’s Facebook page with complaints about interviewing a women’s rights supporter, the interview has been removed from their website, and no matter what the values, beliefs, thoughts and attitudes are of Lands’ End CEO Federica Marchionni, her responsibility is to stand for the company. I get it, but I don’t like it. So where do I stand?

I personally think it’s a shame Gloria’s interview was taken down because of comments from people on Facebook, which has become such a powerful sounding board that companies listen and respond to, out of fear.

If my company, Nia, and I find ourselves defending a person, thought, attitude and belief, I will stand by those I believe in, whose different thoughts, attitudes and beliefs may make some people uncomfortable. It’s the right kind of doing we need to do more of, to feature people who have made a difference in their industries and in the world. Don't back pedal when people challenge you. Speak up and be strong. Keep the Gloria’s who stand for women’s rights and the freedom of all people, seen and heard in our world.






Womanhood Wisdom

To me the wisdom and gifts associated with being a woman are a constant process of trial, error, and forgiveness. I had to learn to embrace my own femininity, not just as someone who did things like other women of the past, but as my own woman. Along the way I often felt alone, as if no one else could possibly understand what I was going through. If I only knew then what I know now, being a woman is a sensory, always changing, sensuous life where moment-to-moment we’re on the verge of insanity and greatness. 
It is an honor to be a woman. Having a fulfilling life is a choice, and it is available to all feeling and thinking human beings that choose this path. It’s not always easy, but it is rewarding. As women, we birth children and we also birth new ideas, that have the power to break paradigms. I believe every life and story of a woman has the power and potential to stop war and make love. I recognize the choices women have made, and honor what they each bring to changing the identity of the inner and outer landscape of womanhood.
One woman I honor is my mother; she has taught me so many wonderful, influential lessons. What I feel has impacted me the most was teaching me to honor and respect what I believe to be the essence and source of my womanhood: my feminine spirit. Not a day goes by that I don’t acknowledge my mother. It is within the folds of her story and within the fibers of our relationship that I have embraced the woman I am.
I have learned to listen to my personal insights, feelings, and voices of my body. These feelings and voices are something that I honor and cherish. They have helped me deal with womanhood and with life. Asking myself questions has always been instrumental in me changing and growing into the woman I want to become. I ask myself, “What gets in the way of you living a full life as a woman?” When I slow down and begin the important process of listening, one of formulating my own language, thoughts, beliefs, all of which clearly define my story and philosophy, I begin to tap into MY story, the story of my womanhood.






A New York State of Mind

New York! It’s my kind of town. I say this for many reasons, and most of all because it is the city that never sleeps. Even though the sun rises and sets, there is no beginning or end. No morning or night. No time and place where things are supposed to happen. Everyone creates their own life map of where and when they do what they do. Like lovers who continuously fight and make up, joy and misery seem to sit side by side, causing those who live here to vacillate back and forth between “I hate this place,” to “I love this place.” I believe this is life, some of it good, some bad, some ugly, but most of it—amazingly marvelous. 
I practice not attaching to the good or bad, however I’m definitely attracted to the intensity of all of it. It’s intense, deep, loud, impractical, challenging, and costly in every way, from time, to space, to consciousness—New York costs a lot. This is why you either love it or leave it, or if you’re like me, you come and go, pretending you live here, enjoying all the parts you love, without having things build up and take you over the edge into “I hate this.”
My experience of the people in New York is that they’re tough, resilient, hardworking, and willing to do what it takes to make it. Making it in New York is true. If you can make it there you can make it anywhere. Living involves the day-to-day climb up the New York mountain of Mt. Everest.

Take for instance my friend Caroline meeting me for coffee after working with her private client. Awake at an ungodly hour, showered, downing a shake and her vitamins, she straps on her white helmet, pulls her backpack stuffed with her lunch, clothes to teach in, computer and incidentals for the day on her back and off she goes. She takes her bike from the apartment, down the elevator and into the morning. There she rides through the streets of New York like batgirl. The difference is her batgirl outfit is a puffy down black jacket and from underneath peaks peacock feathers. Her hands are dressed in elbow length black leather gloves and ears adorned in blue rhinestone earrings. The Nia psychedelic, bell bottom, black and white pants neatly stuffed into her biker, knee-high black leather boots, really get your attention. She does her training gig and hops back on her bike to meet me at Starbucks on Park Avenue. This time the streets are packed with cars, people and cabs. It’s a very different ride, dangerous for sure, but she’s a seasoned New Yorker. She’s trained in the art of adapting.

I hear a knock on the window and look up to see this vision of batgirl. I smile as I watch her find a place to lock up her bike. The man next to me asks if they are making a movie? Is the girl in the window in the movie? No. It’s just Caroline, living her Mt. Everest day in New York, wrapping, chaining and locking up her transportation.

Our time spent together was talking about Nia New York and the training I’m about to give, “Moving to Heal.” This is in response to Caroline’s desire to rebuild and reenergize Nia New York. I agreed to do my part, and this will be my second training in a month. 
An hour later Caroline rides to the JCC where she will do her magic. Throughout the week she will teach four Nia classes, run the health and wellness department at the JCC, teach two Nia for Parkinson classes, one class for those dancing with cancer, and one class for kids, most of whom do not speak English. Coffee in hand, I close up my computer and do what most New Yorkers do. I walk. Surrounded by sounds and people, I walk to my appointment having climbed my own New York Mt. Everest.






Reading My Body

I have a reading ritual on Sunday morning: me and the Times newspaper have a date.

As someone who grew up with learning disabilities, struggling to read and comprehend, I feel proud every time I sit down with my coffee to read this paper. Something was different today. Not once did I feel proud of my accomplishment. I believe this means I have transformed and finally embodied the belief, “I can read.” By finally, I mean I’ve come close to sensing this in the past, but I have never really arrived to it as truth.

The first time I sensed this to be true was when I read the book, Zen Mind Zen Horse: The Science and Spirituality of Working with Horses, by Allan J. Hamilton, MD, author of the most beautiful book about horses. He eloquently discusses the primary method of human communication and explains how we receive information: 70% comes from what we see as body language, i.e. nonverbal, 20% comes from the tone of our voice, and 10% comes from the actual words we speak. Reading this I finally understood something about me, how my brain and in fact, the human brain itself is coded to learn; first by receiving and processing information through sight, as in images, colors and body language; second through sound, the tone and pitch of a voice; and third, by the words we speak and hear. This was a revelation to me that explained why I am so seduced by what I see, and why being unable to read propelled me into the arts. As an artist you don’t have to read words, you read symbols. Shape and design is how you receive information. This is also how I came to know and understand things, by looking at shapes and seeing how they fit together, support each other, or don’t.

The second time I sensed that, “I can read,” could be true, was when I read the book, Proust and The Squid, by Maryanne Wolf. She beautifully synthesized cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research, psychology and archaeology, linguistics and education, neuroscience and history, to understand what she calls “the reading brain.” She eloquently chronicled human development from the process of writing to reading, detailing the neuroscience, the magic and mechanics behind writing and reading. Her perspective gave me a deeper understanding and respect for how we, as humans, have developed a reading brain. It provided me with the validation I needed to understand how I adapted my learning disabilities, and went to my body to sense in order to interpret information, starting with decoding symbols, and then adding words to explain what I knew and understood.

One particular quote in Wolf’s book by the Greek dramatist best known for Athenian New Comedy, Menander, “Those who can read see twice as well.” This stimulated a conversation between my body and my mind, and I wondered if this could be true about reading the body? If I can read the body, do I see twice as well? As someone who struggled with book reading, the idea I could see twice as well by reading the body was exciting!

When people ask me what I am here to do, I know I am here to inspire people to “feel to heal.” I have always known this. Feeling and reading the body is my work, and teaching people to develop the most important relationship they will ever have, the one they have with their body, drives me to save what I perceive is the most endangered species on the planet: the human being body.

Wolf believes reading is one of the single most remarkable inventions in history and our ability to record history has been one of the consequences of reading. Like other scientists researching the brain, she points out that due to the design and plasticity of the brain, the brain has an extraordinary ability to change and make new connections among the existing structures that shape our experiences. As I see it, it is up to us to use this knowledge and wisdom to change things for the better. While Wolf tells the story of the reading brain, the context of which she explains our evolutionary development and unfolding, I have applied this thinking to the reading body. Imagine what kind of life and world we will have if we develop the reading body and the reading brain. I believe this will create a more holistic context upon which to guide our human evolutionary and personal development, and more importantly the relationship we have with our body and health.

Is a reading brain the same as a reading body? I think or should I say, I feel so. While the physical parts we each have are the same, the way we communicate with the parts and systems of our body, and how we interpret, or read and decode their information, is different for everyone. The way we use the parts is also quite different. Some of us listen to our body; we walk, run, and feed our body with good food and love, while others do the complete opposite.

I can now read, but the deep learning, understanding and embodied knowledge comes from my reading body, from seeing, sensing and turning words and mental constructs, concepts and theories into body sensations. I listen to and hear the voices of the body speaking to me.

No matter how mentally intelligent or challenged someone may be, whether they’re labeled normal or dyslexic, I believe given the opportunity everyone can learn. I’m a perfect example of it. My way, the body’s way, gave me a path to learn and discover how to learn, how to read, and best of all, how to be in relationship with my body. I know that given the time and space to explore The Body’s Way and Your Body’s Way, every one can find a way to feel better, move better and look better at any age.

Proust said, “I believe that reading, in its original essence, is that fruitful miracle of communication in the midst of solitude.” I believe sensing, in its original essence, is the fruitful miracle of communication discovered in the midst of thinking.

In a body, you are someone with a life partner and a lover. It’s called your body. I promise that if you commit to cultivating this relationship and the processes of sensing, feeling and thinking, you can become your best body and life coach.

So I ask you this, what will happen to human communication as we continue to live in a technological world with a digital brain? Will we lose the ability to sense, feel and be connected to life through our body?

If we are to live and thrive in a digital world, we need a linking intelligence, something we can use that will connect our reading body, the part of us that reads via body sensation, with our reading brain, the part of us that reads and interprets written language. Imagine what will happen when we connect the reading brain and the reading body. Imagine what will happen when we develop a new kind of communication, a psychophysical alphabet integrating the sensing body with the reading brain. I believe we will be able to communicate with our self, our body and with the world in better ways.

Remember this, as a biological species you are coded to think, sense and feel. The Body’s Way is a way to create a psychophysical (mind-body) alphabet with two other human intelligences: feeling (emotions), and spirit (personal uniqueness). I believe we can live in the fast growing inevitable digital world successfully, and that learning the technology of the body’s design and function is as important as learning a new computer program. Your body can become the most important relationship you will ever have and your instrument of change, helping you to evolve and stay connected to the most valuable and important attributes of being human: sensing and feeling.

This is why I am writing my book, The Body’s Way, and am excited to share it with the world!






Full Throttle Living – Managing Energy

When I was eight years old I watched TV to secretly work out with fitness gurus, Jack LaLanne and Hatha Yoga teacher, Richard Hittleman. These two teachers gave me my first introduction into the body, as something I could listen to, learn from and be in relationship with. I can hear their voices now. They were way ahead of their time. I had no idea how moving my body, something so sacred and precious, was stirring what is necessary to live life full-throttle: life force energy. What I did know was after each show I felt better, more energized and alive. I wanted more of this “feel good” energy sensation.
I later found martial arts to be the most effective training for learning to manage my energy and protect the most important thing I own: my body. On or off the mat, I know everything I do is dependent on me utilizing my energy. When I need a reset, I practice what I call, a New Year Recapitulation. I look into the past for pivotal moments where I perceive I unnecessarily lost energy due to the choices and decisions I made. It’s one of the ways I live life fearlessly, full throttle, and operate at my best.
I first mentally bring to mind an event that occurred but instead of analyzing the situation, I go into my body to sense and feel the emotions associated with the event. I take inventory of the choices and decisions I made that have either added or subtracted from my personal power, health, well being, and “feel good” body sensations. I give total attention to the voice of my body: sensation, and notice where it “feels bad.” Using counterfactual thinking, and creating a contrary possible alternative to a life event that has already occurred, I rewrite the story with a different outcome. Along the way I notice the shift in energy from feeling bad, to feeling better, to feeling good. The sensation of feeling good tells me the different choices and decisions were right. How do I know this? I’m left with a feeling of having more energy, more confidence, and wisdom. 
As owner of a company with twenty-plus employees, conflict is bound to arise. One of the practices I follow is to give people the space to have emotions around their experience, respecting they will communicate and work together to resolve the conflict. The other day there was a conflict in the office and I was brought into the situation. I was tested as to how I was going to manage my energy, but I gave too much to the situation. Because I live a body-centered life, I could sense I had drained my battery. I went back to my desk, closed my eyes and recapitulating: reliving the situation, seeing it in my mind and feeling it in my body. I imagined me responding differently, better, and in thirty seconds I became energy full, calmer, and centered. 
By sensing the effects of life events on my body, I can manage my energy by noticing which choices and decisions leave me feeling energetic or drained. I can use the sensation of feeling bad, as the motivator to do things different, better, and experience personal growth at its best!

 

Recapitulation Techniques for Full Throttle Living 

Is there an event in which your energy was drained? Rewrite your story using counterfactual thinking and following the steps below:

 Choose any pivotal event from the past that you’d like to redo, a situation in which you have a desire to feel better about your choices and decisions.


 Close your eyes and connect to the sensation of how your body feels.


 Picture yourself in the experience, sense the event’s impact in your body and notice when your body doesn’t feel good.


 Rewind to the beginning of the event and imagine the situation playing out with a different outcome or a different response.


 Notice the shift in your body. Release the event and reclaim your energy so you can move forward and feel empowered.

This technique can be used anytime. The moment you sense a loss and decrease of energy, or perceive you didn’t manage your energy well, commit to an energetic redo.
By using recapitulation I can learn from the past and step into the future physically, mentally, emotionally, and energetically wiser and energy-full. This means transforming myself into a better person, which is a constant journey.






Celebrating Prince - A Life of Art

Yesterday, I heard the news of the musician Prince passing, a loss for the music industry and for all those who loved his daring, courageous, physical, mental, emotional, and uniquely spiritual connection to life. Sound was his way in, and I hope it was his way out. I have visions of his hands on his guitar, singing at the top of the lungs and leaving without even being aware he was being taken. I use the word taken, as this is what happened to me every time I looked at his picture, watched him perform or even talk, and always when I listened to his music. I was taken, transported somewhere else that connected me to the divine, sacredness of life.

While you may not have liked his music, he was an artist, and artists understand that not everyone will like their art. Artists like Prince understand how important it is to do your art and to not be affected by people’s comments and feelings about your art. Those who love what you do will find you and not always tell you they love what you do. Those who do not love what you do will go away and in their own way, say why your art is not good.

Prince was colorful, intelligent, sexy, brave, and unique. His music inspired many musicians to step out of their box, and to brave criticism for being different. To the universe, different is what inspires life. Just look around and you’ll see we’re all somewhat cut from the same cloth but different. It is our uniqueness that reminds us WE only get this one lifetime to make our own music.

Celebrate the life of the man, Prince, by sharing what you love without hesitation or apology.






"Eat Dance Shine" Michele Kaye Shares About Her New Book on Nia, Nutrition & Healthy Living

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/eat-dance-shine-michele-kayes-book-on-nia-nutrition-healthy-living[/tonedenplayer]






Keeping Our Mothers' Stories Alive

Several years ago my mother gave me a gift, her diary. Curled up in a chair, Earl Grey tea (my favorite) in hand, I read it from front to back. Her gift to me was a story, and it changed my relationship with her as a woman and as my mother. It also shifted my perspective on what it means to live life in love, and it inspired me to write my book, Keeping our Mother’s Stories Alive, so everyone might have the opportunity to intimately know details about the person who mothered them.
Originally written for her mother and father to share her journey to America in 1946, where on January 22nd she joined her new husband, my father, Arthur. Her diary has become a way to leave her legacy for future generations in our family to enjoy.
While I was set to breeze through the pages, the opening page caused me to stop and feel the words in my heart, and read more slowly, and with greater curiosity.
As my mother Jeanne described, her diary was a book, a record of interesting events in the life of Jeanne De Omar Bender. Events in the life of a child whose father, Frederick William Ballard, and mother, Queenie De Omar Ballard, gave life to her on October 6, 1924 at Wembley. Christened at Seer Green to godparent, Dorothy Ballard, my mother’s story was just beginning for me and I wanted more.
The pages were filled with snip-it life events of a young woman leaving her home in London to start a new life in America. Pictures, letters and post cards, some of which that my dad had sent to his mother were included, giving me a peek into who my dad was as a young man in love with my mom.
My favorite postcard from my dad read,
“Dearest Mother and Dad…Going to miss you both, but will be thinking of you on this important day of your son’s life. Just want to thank you for the wonderful life you have given me. I hope that I can make my marriage as successful as your’s and Dad’s. We both send our love to you and regret not being able to see you at our wedding.
Your Loving Son,
Arthur
August 16, 1944”
I believe stories and myths are valuable in reawakening a connection to what once was. They remind us to dream, create and to live the life our heart and soul desires.
I hope this book will provide people with the space to honor the story of all mothers, whether they be a man, woman, sister, foster or step parent, neighbor or grandparent, keeping their stories alive will allow future generations something of great value.
If you want to know more about your own mother you will love my book, as it will guide you to ask questions to learn about their story, and guide you in a simple process to write their story, leaving a legacy for you and others in your family to enjoy.
My mom and dad instilled in me a profound desire to love and express love. As a couple, they taught me to live my dream, and to move beyond a family of origin to include a larger spiritual family. I can hear their words and feel them in my heart, “It’s okay honey, do what you need to do, believe in yourself, and believe in love.”
Their life, their love, taught me well and everyday I give thanks for the life they have given to me.
No matter what form your mother came to you in, know that the love of a mother is deeply ingrained in the collective and human psyche. It is immortal and has the ability to make lives better.
We are all on the road to becoming ancestors. It is our birthright and spiritual work to keep our stories alive.
View Book Here.






Surprises Are the Best Kept Secret to Health!

I had the most amazing Mother’s Day weekend. It started on Friday with picking my mom up at the airport. As I always do, I waited for mom’s wheelchair to come around the corner and “bam!” I saw her with my sister—surprise #1. I love surprise moments. It’s when my brain can’t quite register “this is real” and I get a blast of inspiration and Chi flooding all of my 100 trillion cells. I feel so alive after a surprise.
I remember as a child loving to surprise and shock people, especially my family. Most of the time I got the response I had intended—it was good. Then there were times my idea of a fun surprise backfired, like when I bought disappearing ink and intentionally poured it on my mom’s new bedspread. At the top of my lungs, acting panicked, I yelled for her to come into the bedroom. Crying profusely, telling her how sorry I was, we both stood there and watched the dark stain of ink begin to fade and disappear. Once the ink was gone I started laughing. She was not amused. There was also the time I put fake dog poop on my parent’s new carpet, and again, not the response I had planned! The good outcomes come when I surprise people with things that personally touch them, reminding them about a part of their life and story. This is the kind of surprise I had waiting for my mom at NiaStudio. 
Straight from the airport, I told her we were stopping by the office as my staff wanted to say “Hi." She and my sister went to the fourth floor, first to see Stuart, as I wanted my sister Jenni to surprise him. Next, surprise #2, walking through the hallway with my mom and Jenni, they began to see the pages blown up on the wall of what was to be surprise #3—the big surprise: the book I co-wrote and published for her, Keeping Our Mothers’ Stories Alive. This is my Mother’s memoir created from the diary she wrote as a young woman, a British war bride coming to America to meet her new husband, my dad. My mother gave this diary to me years ago and there the idea of an interactive journal was born. It took me 10 years to create and I must say, it was better than I had imagined.
Mom, overcome with emotion was touched by seeing and reading parts of her life on the wall. As I had expected, her experience shifted her normal slow pace into a more brisk walk, and her small frame suddenly grew and she became taller. Next, I showed her a poster announcing our book and told her about the book reading and signing she was going to do with me on Saturday! More tears.
Sharing surprises can be fun, even healing. Moments of inspiration do change the world when we become touched by others. When we keep people’s stories alive we activate the voice of passionate, healthy living in the world. No one does this better than Janine Francolini, a Nia Blue Belt, and Founder of the Flawless Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to raising awareness of mental health. In the past, Janine has surprised me, once by recommending I present at Mama Gena’s School of Womanly Arts. This Saturday she joined the rocking Nia class celebrating “The Mothers In You,” and following attended the book signing and reading. Janine interviewed my mom, Jeanne Bender, and wrote a Huffington Post blog to support their #talktome campaign. It is titled “10 Things I Learned From A 91-Year-Old Enchantress.” On all levels, my mother and I were surprised by the beautiful write-up and are grateful to Janine.
How will you surprise someone today?






Goodbye, My Dear Friend

“Today is a great day to die,” I often find myself saying. I say it easily as I have the freedom to. I am healthy, and as far as I know, death is not at my doorstep. This was not true for my friend Bill Bowen; he, unfortunately died this week.

I met Bill at a time in my life when I had just discovered my then husband had done something awful. Off to my therapist, I was sure I could fix this. That therapist didn’t work out and in search for another Hakomi therapist, I found Bill.

I remember walking into Bill’s office — the smell, the sign asking me to take my shoes off and the starkly furnished room. On the windowsill sat a ball and some trinkets, and a wooden bookshelf with bodywork and body therapy books. Perfectly placed, stood a few statues that told me Bill were most likely Buddhist. If not, certainly someone I could connect with spiritually. Surely he was interesting, an artist of some kind.

As the door opened, a man of small frame, slightly balding and with the most amazing smile reached his hand out. He introduced himself as “Bill.” His hand was warm and it was the kind of handshake that lingers, which made me feel a bit uncomfortable. Good, I thought.

In the room, I saw a massage table, two chairs, a small table with his notepad, Kleenex, a trashcan and blanket and on the windowsill, more trinkets. I assumed I could play with these during my session. I did.

In a soft-spoken voice, Bill asked me, “Why are you here? What do you want?” That was easy. My husband had done something awful, and I was not sure how to handle it or what to do. Bill looked at me and said, “You know, you know exactly what to do; the answer is in your body!”

I stayed for the hour and felt like I had three years of therapy. This one hour turned into a relationship that lasted over twenty-six years and included years of therapy by myself and with my new husband.

Bill was a master. He was an angel. He was the angel who unruffled my feathers, giving me the confidence ­— to fly solo. I miss him already.

Bill was fondly known in the community as our therapist. He knew more about each one of us than anyone. Intimate details most would be ashamed of, but none of us were. There was something wonderful knowing he was there, holding space for us all. Letting us all expose who we were: the good, bad and ugly. It was not uncommon to be sitting in his waiting room and see a friend or a couple come out of Bill’s room, and another friend go sit in the chair I had been in.

It’s been a short ride for Bill, journeying through his sickness. I never got to physically see him and say thank you. I did Skype with him two times and feel blessed for the opportunity to have our moments of goodbye. Neither of us wanted to say it, even though we felt it.

Goodbye, my dear friend Bill. Thank you for fighting for me, for my husband, my family, and for holding space for so many in our community. You will be severely missed.

We must now do the work you taught us to do. In your words, “Be nice to each other!”

I will.






Sometimes It Just Hurts

People tell me I’m strong and that I have courage. Sometimes it’s true, and then there are the times I’m taken down. Those are the times I let myself feel the feelings and recognize the hurt.
One of my mentors and anatomy teachers Gil Hedley recently said, “The only real way to lie is through words. The body doesn’t lie.” How true. I guess this is why sometimes the hurt feels so bad.
Leading a forty-year-old organization I’ve had my fair share of good and bad experiences of hurt. I’ve also lost my cool and said things I’m not proud of, but within a day or two, I apologize, reaching out to the people I lost it with. Some have received my apology and others didn’t. These are the relationships that still leave pain in my heart.
The real hurt comes when people say untrue things about me and my work to validate their position. Untruths are used to make people feel right about their next step. I believe there is a better way. It’s the way I have left relationships, using love not hate, and feeling gratitude for the people and experiences that have brought me to where I am. I like this way. It leaves me feeling good and one with all that is.
No matter what the reason for the breakup, I always feel a bit sad. I love people. I love community. I love collaborating and creating the kind of magic that happens between like minds moving toward the same goal. In my world, this means improving people’s health and well-being, and fostering transformation. I can only continue to learn and grow from my relationships and move towards better - better people, better movement, better thinking, and better relationships.






Heavenly Grey London

Waking up this morning in London I was reminded how much I love the sun. I miss it. My body misses the vitamin D. Sleeping in a room with a skylight above the bed, morning light shrouds my body snuggled up under the covers. The light seems to penetrate the layers of a comforter, blanket, and sheets. My eyes open and they see the heavenly grey. I talk myself into “it’s okay.” But really, I miss the blue. This is what I also miss most living in Portland, the blue above my head and the touch of heat from the sun.

The grey does cause me to shift my perception to the moment, to be inspired by the moment. I see the world around me as art, something I teach as part of the Nia practice called Life As Art. It’s just one of the gifts I have received from Nia, so many gifts. So many, I blow my own mind with this practice. I continue to experience the benefits of Nia, even though the practice came through me. I wonder if Isadora Duncan felt the same way about what came through her? I imagine in quiet moments of reflection she did. At least I tell myself this story. We write our story in the choices and decisions we make every second of the day. And I dream up a lovely story.

Imagine. You may say that I’m a dreamer, but I’m not the only one. I hope some day you’ll join me—the world will live as one, and bodies will be listened to and respected. People will love their body and life. They will live life for peace. You may say that I’m a dreamer, but I’m not the only one. I hope someday you will join me, us, the 2300 Nia teachers and thousands of people dancing Nia. Imagine all the people sharing. You may say that I’m a dreamer, but I’m not the only one. I hope some day you’ll join me, and the world can live as one, inspired to be better, do better, and see blue in the grey.






First FloorPlay Training In Germany!

Last week I completed the first two-day FloorPlay Training in Hamburg, Germany, with 40+ Nia teachers who were hungry for knowledge! Ann Christiansen co-trained with me and it was set at the most glorious dojo with a white floor, the perfect place for playing with gravity, space, time, and the body on the floor. As this was the first FloorPlay training, it gave me the opportunity to create and build on the foundation of my current knowledge. I love this.

Through playing on the floor I have discovered an intelligence that I lost, once I began to walk as a small child. Going back to the floor, where we learn about our body and life, I was able to share with great simplicity, the methods, tools and techniques for healing and conditioning.

The feedback from the students regarding the healing and natural conditioning results was excellent. When the brain is given something to do, when the body is given a posture, and the direction is to play to feel better, you feel good, guided by two powerhouses: attention and pleasure. The result is the body's personal intelligence is revealed.

In Floorplay, I hear my body speak to me every time I revisit my first playground: the floor. This ancient and wise voice says,

“I offer you a journey back in time, to when you made your first connection with the Earth, with your body, mind, emotions and spirit. Allow me to connect you to safety, found in the arms of gravity. Slip into my spaces and choose comfort. Play and connect with your grand teachers: your body and the Universe. Let me gently coax you into exploring with curiosity and fascination, the world around you. Listen to my guidance that says, ‘Move, move, and move again.’ I will take you into self-knowing, where in your own time, in your own way, you will move with greater skill and from the heart”.

I am so pleased with the end result of this work. It can only get better. I love my body! I love my life! I love Nia!

Photo by Ann Christiansen






Dancing with Community: Finding Solace Through Nia During Hard Times

I have been teaching Nia classes since 2004. In my 16 years of teaching, I have led classes during many tragic and heartbreaking events - some personal, some local and some global.

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, a wave of ‘Nia Bayou Boogies – Dance and Donate’ classes swept across the country and the globe, starting right here in with NiaSeattle teachers then spreading to the global community with teachers and students raising over $32,000 in one month. We danced and donated again as NiaSeattle teachers for many more natural disasters such as the China earthquake in 2008, the Haiti earthquake in 2010, the Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011 and the tragic Oso, Washington landslide in 2014. Our Nia classes have continued through a series of human-made disasters as well, including dancing to end violence against women in the One Billion Rising worldwide efforts held yearly since Valentines Day 2012. http://www.Onebillionrising.org

In November of 2012, Washington State voted into law that marriage is legal between same-sex partners. On December 15, 2012, the morning of my long awaited wedding to my partner of 23 years, I led an emotionally filled Nia class one day after the horrible Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings.

“Events like this can create fear that further isolate and change the values and practices of our culture, community and country;
or, it can strengthen the personal and collective resolve for compassion, equality and justice for all.”
--Bob Gilbertson, President and CEO of YMCA

On Saturday, June 11, 2016, I was up late, laughing, celebrating and opening birthday presents from my family until past midnight after they took me out to dinner and to see “Motown, The Musical” in Seattle. It was a wonderful and festive night watching world-class musical theater. The very next morning, on June 12th, I awoke to the horrific news that 49 people were killed and another 53 injured by a mass murderer at The Pulse, a gay dance club in Orlando, Florida. The mass murderer died too making the total 50. I sadly reflected that this was happening as I opened my birthday presents. It was Latin night. They were dancing, celebrating life, doing what they loved to do, with their friends and loved ones, at, what they thought was a safe place.

“We must begin to see and feel that the life force of people and all living things is precious. We must drop the fear and step into love. We must find a way to stop the hate.”
--Debbie Rosas, Founder and CEO of The Nia Technique

This week, as I lead my six Nia classes at my own Blue Heron Ranch Studio in Sammamish and at Bellevue Family YMCA, I have a sad yet strongly determined heart – determined to spread more love and more compassion in any way I can. As a Nia teacher, I have learned that moving with music and dancing with community, can be healing and empowering – even in the most hopeless of times. I was happy to receive a heartfelt note from my directors at the YMCA, where I have been employed as a Nia teacher for nine years, including one from the president and CEO of all YMCA’s, Bob Gilbertson. He ended his note with a reminder of our choices, “Events like this can create fear that further isolate and change the values and practices of our culture, community and country; or, it can strengthen the personal and collective resolve for compassion, equality and justice for all.”

I also received a strong message from the founder and CEO of Nia, Debbie Rosas, where she included this call to peace, “We must begin to see and feel that the life force of people and all living things is precious. We must drop the fear and step into love. We must find a way to stop the hate.”

This week the focus for my six Nia classes is ‘Dancing with community’ with the intention to move and bring a sense of harmony, synergy and love into our bodies and our lives. It is an honor to provide a safe place to dance with each other while cultivating a dynamic collective positive energy that I hope will somehow, someday penetrate the fear, sadness and hate and heal our broken world. More kindness. More forgiveness. More compassion. More love and peace. Starting here. Now.

Randee Foxx
http://www.randeefox.com






Paying Attention

Over the years of practicing to sustain my focus, I have discovered I have a personal bandwidth for paying attention. I pay better attention if I’m interested in the subject, when there’s a payback and when I receive something meaningful and important to me. There’s a fatiguing sensation of “overwhelmed” I have learned to track. It comes when I don’t pay attention to my bandwidth, the linear and fluid dimension holder for the information coming at me. 
I used to think this was only true about information coming from outside of me, and that the information I receive by listening to the voice inside, had no limit. Not true! While I pride myself in having the ability to sustain internal listening and notice the voice of sensation, the other day I found myself telling these voices, “Enough, I need a time out!” I found myself placing restrictions on the voices in me that I trust, and turning to my logical mind, to guide me and help me make choices. 
At first, I thought I was just asking for silence. I was surprised to discover that in fact, these internal voices did not quiet down. They merely began to slow the speed at which they were communicating with me. Slow and slower is the speed I can see, feel, hear, smell, taste and receive more. Once again, The Body’s Way reminded me what is true: attention is our most essential mental resource. According to author Daniel J. Levitin, in The Organized Mind, “The attentional filter is one of evolution’s greatest achievements.”
I get it. For me, my attention determines what I am going to deal with in the moment. I feel extremely grateful to my body’s design and function that I come equipped with automatic and subconscious processes that monitor all the information coming and going through me. These parts of me are responsible for making choices about what gets through to me. I certainly don’t have the bandwidth to handle the onslaught of information moving in and around me. 
As Levitin so articulately reminded me, “In order to understand one person speaking to us, we need to process 60 bits of information per second. With a processing limit of 120 bits per second, this means you can barely understand two people talking to you at the same time.” Hence, my need to tell the internal voices, “Enough, I need a time out!”
Today, my day is packed with meetings. Information is going to come and go and I’ll do my best to pay attention. I can rest knowing that in the background, working for me and my body is something even greater than my conscious awareness. The neurons in my brain are designed and functioning as Debbie’s attentional filters, doing what they do best, letting the most important stuff for me to know, into my consciousness.






The Best Wedding Ever!

Last week, Stuart and I attended what we are now calling, “The best wedding ever!” There are many reasons I could list for making such a statement, but there’s only one—LOVE. Not the first time, storybook kind of love, but the deep LOVE that grows out of time, life and friendship, people coming together to become something more. This something more was celebrated in a community who has watched for ten years as Lita and Rob’s relationship has grown. Throughout their wedding, Stuart and I, and their friends were reminded of the importance of ceremony, community, friendship and family.
I met Lita when she was pregnant with her son, Skye. He was the ring bearer at my wedding to Stuart, and yesterday officiated what he calls his mother and father’s wedding. While not his biological father, Rob has been a father to Sky, doing what we hope all fathers do for us: love us unconditionally, love our mother, treat us with kindness and respect, praise us, stand for our safety and most of all, see our unique greatness and teach us to be loving, compassionate, humble, gracious and great spiritual beings. 
A wedding stands for many things. Most of us can relate to the declaration of love in front of family and friends, but seldom do we get to witness the unbridled flow of such grace, simplicity, and clarity of spoken word. I am forever touched by this moment. I feel loved. I feel hopeful. I feel lifted and cared for. I feel brought into a perfect circle that can never be broken. I feel what Rob and Lita left us with, “You are all our beloveds!”






Mother's Day Debbie Podcast

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/mothers-day-debbie-podcast[/tonedenplayer]






Curating a Master Class

I just landed in Santa Barbara, California, and am currently preparing for tonight’s master class, as well as the Moving to Heal training that begins tomorrow. 
After the class, we will celebrate with a party. I’ll meet and greet students, many of whom will be familiar. That’s the joy of being in a business that’s been around for over forty years. There’s history with people. No doubt there will be some new people too. These are the ones at the beginning of the journey. The rest of us, well, we’ve been on the journey for a long time; we’re seasoned. Maybe that’s what they mean by a master. I have never felt comfortable with the word “master” class; I feel pressured to do something over the top. I just want to dance and do what I love—Nia, but I’m seasoned and I’ve got experience. I know what I’m doing and people can count on me to deliver. 
Therein lies the pressure. When will I cease to deliver? Will I know? This scares me. Will I recognize when I can no longer teach a master class experience? I hope so. In the meantime, I’m going to do my best. 
Ken Gilbert, who is producing the event, requested I bring the feminine spirit to the master class. We had a great discussion about what he meant, as I always feel I bring this. Part of our conversation centered around something I believe: women hold the space for birthing change, and in the world today, we need change to heal. Curating this event and choosing the best music to accomplish this goal is my challenge.
My class will look like this: I will begin with the Nia 5 Stages. Moving from the ground up into standing makes us more intelligent, at least that’s what the great psychologist Stanley Keleman wrote in his book, Emotional Anatomy. We’re supposed to be more conscious, upright. As for curating the rest of the class, I have an hour and a half, plenty of time to create a Debbie-Nia experience. I will include Voices of the Body, community interaction, FreeDance and the beautiful form of Nia from Debbie’s universe. 
Most of all, I am going to have fun and be thankful to Ken and all the students who make my world go round!






How Traveling Impacts My Life

Traveling is incredibly important to me but returning from any trip requires adjustment. My body, mind, emotions and spirit need to find their way back into the NOW of my life in a familiar place, my home, loaded with history. It’s the history I want to take in, and it’s also the thing I want to dissolve and break away from, freeing myself to be different.

Time spent away from my usual life and environment is an excellent use of my body, life force, time and consciousness. Trips away allow me to spend time with Debbie, focusing on the relationship I have with my heart, soul and body. In an unfamiliar place, I am able to refine my ability to listen to my body speak through its voice: sensation. Somehow the bed, the pillow, the glass of wine all feel and taste different when I am traveling. Through this difference, I am able to notice how I function in relationship with my body in a new place.

When I arrive home, I give myself permission to re-enter. I consciously let go of needing to be somewhere and get my act together! I feel better for it. The little depression that accompanies a return home after a long trip away feels softer, sweeter. The slight depression wants me to look at my life and feel the wonder with deep gratitude. It wants me to see Debbie through the eyes of god, goddess and all that is. It wants me to sense my fatigue as a representation of how much I did and gave because I care so deeply about Nia and the people who are a part of it. Through feeling sadness, I can choose love to fuel my actions.

I re-enter with tender love and care for Debbie, ready for what my home life presents and prepared for the next opportunity to travel.






How Can Each Dance Be Like The First?

There’s nothing like the first time. Remember the excitement of your first kiss? Dance? That a-ha? It’s the moment when every inch of your body is picking up signals of sensation. Your eyes, ears and nose are taking in the pleasurable experience.
For me, the first time of anything is magic. It’s deeply real. I cannot see or explain it but I sense it in my whole body and want to relive it again. I love nothing more than anchoring each experience in the new of the now, where all my sensory stimuli engage me with life. This is my practice, to engage with each experience, each dance as if it is the first time.

Today, when I came to work I felt the blast of beginner’s mind bliss and child-like curiosity and excitement kick in. I was excited to see what the day would bring. I have meetings with my employees, am preparing material for my next training and have three phone calls scheduled. This is a typical day, but my approach influences the outcome. When I am in the now of the moment, I embrace the day with my eyes wide open, my ears tuned in and my nose sniffing around. I can embody new information, laugh a new laugh or move in a way I have never moved before. I am engaged with the people, places and things of life. My awareness of the world inside and outside of me is heightened.

My days may look similar from an outside perspective but inside, it is a completely new experience. Much like my martial arts training, growth comes from recognizing what I know and also what I don’t know. Anything that is the same becomes my foundation for the new.

There is a feeling, a sensation of anticipation that comes from living in the unknown; this is where discovery occurs. Making anything as good as the first time starts with perceiving each moment, each class, each dance as a completely new story. A new experience just waiting to be had—by me and by you!






Don't Let Anger Hold You

Over the years, I have shed many tears responding to the pain in life. It comes naturally to me. I have sixty-five years of feeling and crying. I feel so much that my mother used to call me Sarah Bernhardt after the dramatic French film actress. Now as an adult, I am grateful I feel so much. I believe one of the reasons our society is so easy to lash out is due to our inability to feel, to cry. Feeling is normal.

Anger is a human emotion and when out of control it turns destructive. So what do we do with all the anger? Do we off-load onto someone else and project the anger onto them, even though we too feel anger, disappointment and fear? Unless we understand, our anger can become extremely unpredictable and an emotion so powerful it can harm and kill.

I’ve been angered many times during this presidential election with the blame, shame, criticism, naming and the constant use of the words “never” and “always,” which I know are unreal statements. I’m angered by the resonance and sound of the politicians and the newscasters yelling, letting their anger fuel the message they want me to hear. I don’t hear the message. I only feel the anger, an anger that is irrational. I ask myself, how do I become rational in a world I feel is irrational, so wrong. People are saying they can run our country, but they are bullying, demanding, presenting themselves as so right. It’s wrong.

Having run a business for over forty years, I know not all anger is displaced. I’ve had plenty of opportunities to feel anger toward situations, people and events. I know my anger stemmed from my inability to control or get what I wanted and believed was best. Bottom line is, I knew what was underneath my anger, and it was my job to recognize, feel and release.

As Buddha said, “You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.” So today I let go of anger and fill my heart with love as I know anger is there, sitting, hidden within the waters of my love and always available. It is my job to know how to use my anger consciously.






Regena Thomashauer: Turning Women onto their Power & Pleasure

In this podcast of Get In Your Body, Debbie Rosas speaks with Regena Thomashauer (Mama Gena), founder of the School of Womanly Arts. Regena is a teacher, author, mother and a pioneer dedicating her life to researching the nature of pleasure and fun. In this episode, Regena shares about her new book, Pussy: A Reclamation, and how she continues to support women to awaken, turn on and tune into their own power and pleasure to live a more connected life.






Take A Small Step Towards Success

As someone who teaches people about the body and life, I regularly remind my students, small things do make a big difference. These small things lead to big successes.

Sometimes the small successes, like finding my way to a new location or registering my Starbucks card on my phone seem to be transformational! Other times, the measurement of success is something that has taken constant attention and time to achieve. I have learned that when I come from a place of self-love and track when my body says, “Yes,” through sensing pleasure, I move toward success. This keeps me on the journey to achieve exactly what I want.

A fitness study led by Dr. Fishbach and Dr. Choi demonstrated those who focus on the task or process, which in this study is running, performed better and enjoyed themselves more than those who focused only on the end goal or completion. By focusing on the journey, moment to moment, we achieve small incremental successes, which lead to our overall success.

Don’t get me wrong. I have struggled with success in many aspects of my life. I’ve learned to let go of the struggle and direct my energy towards paying attention to the small choices and doing what I need to manifest the life I desire.

What do you desire and how are you going to succeed?

To make things happen, pay attention; notice that small choices and decisions move you towards, not away, from what you desire. When the motivation to succeed is fueled by love, not fear, results happen faster. When you celebrate and acknowledge that small acts lead to big successes you create an environment of self-love and are intimately present and in relationship with your body on your journey.






The Labor of a Day

Labor Day, the workingmen's holiday, is always the first Monday of September. Depending who you are this national holiday can mean a day off from work, a weekend mini-vacation, time with family and friends and for some, a time to pay tribute to the contributions workers have made to strengthen the prosperity and wellbeing of our country.
As an owner of a company, this day gives me time to remember the people who help make my life and my work—work. In their own way, each person in my company has added to what I feel is an inspiring, meaningful, health conscious culture and contributed to a new modern, social and economic map for creating sacred livelihoods supporting individual achievements and the achievements of my company’s vision.
It’s not always easy running a company and I’m lucky to be surrounded by brilliant and talented people. I’m proud my husband and business partner has created jobs and a work environment where men and women can love what they do, share their talents and work in a caring, collaborative and supportive atmosphere.
In America, we have something great. Freedom and choice. Nothing to take lightly. Freedom and choice are gifts. Today, I celebrate the freedom and choice I have to work and do work I love with people I respect and admire and help me to be better and do better. It all adds to loving my body and life even more.
It is said, the vital force of labor has added materially to the highest standard of living resulting in the greatest production our world has ever known. While this is true, I believe we can do better and at the same time help those less fortunate. Each one of us who works and represents a part of our nation's strength, freedom and leadership as an American worker is part of a bigger whole that includes all workers around the world.
Let us remember, all humans are a world workforce. Pay tribute on this Labor Day to the people who make the world go round for all businesses.
Thank you all for making my Nia world go round.






Do You Feel Your Feet?

How often do you work out to condition and strengthen your feet? Do you ever consciously use your feet? Do you even like your feet?

In spite of the fact that we rely on them for nearly everything we do, feet are often the most neglected, taken-for-granted part of our bodies.

Your feet are platforms upon which to spread the stress of standing and moving. To be steady and reliable, they must be pliable, strong and resilient. Shoes box them in, constrict their circulation and hinder the mobility of their joints and full strengthening of their muscles. Working out barefoot gives your feet a chance to breathe, stretch and become more flexible and stronger. That in turn, affects everything you’re able to do.

Feet never lie. They’re wonderfully forthright and will let you know instantly if something is wrong. The direct contact of flesh with the floor allows your feet to give you a spontaneous, accurate readout on the efficiency and safety of the way you’re moving. The moment you feel a tension in your feet, something is amiss in your carriage.

By paying attention to your feet cues, you’ll know when you’re giving too much weight on the inside, outside, front or back of your feet. By keeping your weight evenly spread across the entire surface of your feet you’ll protect your ankles and knees, freeing up your toes to do their job of monitoring the safe distribution of your weight.

Try this today. Stand barefoot. Take a moment to feel your feet on the floor and thank your feet for carrying you through your day.






Lissa Rankin: Following the Spiritual Path

Debbie Rosas brings you another episode of Get In Your Body with guest extraordinaire, Lissa Rankin, MD. Lissa is a NY Times best-selling author, physician, speaker and mystic on a mission to merge science and spirituality in a way that facilitates the health of the individual and the collective. Debbie speaks with Lissa about her most recent book, The Anatomy of a Calling, her personal experience that led to the “initiation of her spiritual path” and how over the last 10 years she has continued to listen and trust her inner voice.






I'm Passing the Compassion Torch to You

I love surprises. Yesterday was a beautiful surprise. I received an honor, a unique experience for me. I’ve only received two awards in my life. One, an Honorable Mention Award in ninth grade for a pen and ink drawing depicting the Spanish Inquisition, and the other, at forty years old, a LifeTime Achievement Award from friends who admire me!

Yesterday, I was passed the Torch of Compassion, honoring me and my work with Nia. This torch has been passed around to people doing positive work in the world. The torch recognizes and challenges us to continue being compassionate.

Right now, the Compassion Games are taking place. Teams from around the world are uniting with the goal to be compassionate. Watch the video of me getting passed the compassion torch!

The English word compassion comes from Latin and means, to love together with. I’ve always felt if love is the highest magic for human beings, then compassion is love hiding. Seems to me, compassion is easier to express, share and own as a part of one’s emotional makeup. Ranked a great virtue in most religions and philosophies, compassion historically teaches us the way to be better.

As a young child, I was deeply compassionate. Driven by something unexplainable that made me want to help animals and people and ease the pain of injustice I saw, I could not tolerate seeing pain. I decided to do something to make life better.

It’s no accident I was led to create a body of work and profession where people are guided to live in relationship with their body compassionately and lovingly. At the heart of my work is physical joy and pleasure.

Today, the world we live in yearns for us all to have compassion. I believe feeling compassion is the key to creating the changes needed to alter the course of humanity into being better human beings. Even more important than being compassionate is taking action to love, be kind and caring to one another.

Thank you, Nia Brown Belt teacher Sommer Albertsen, the Compassion Games International Relations Coach, and Jon Ramer, the Compassion Games Founder! Your vision is extraordinary. Being honored for the compassionate work I do—Nia, touches me deeply and reminds me I am on the right path. Survival of the kindest can change the world! I am honored to be a part of your story and vision of coopetition.

I am passing the Compassion Torch to you. I invite you to play in the Compassion Games tomorrow Wednesday, September 21, 2016, and celebrate International Day of Peace.

Join the Nia Technique team and participate by doing any act of compassion.

STEP 1: Visit the Compassion Games Website.

STEP 2: Join the Nia Technique team as we play the Compassion Game.
STEP 3: Go to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Share your Nia story of compassion and joy on and off the dance floor.

STEP 4: Post your event on the report map. Click here! Remember to share as the Nia Technique team.

As Jon says “Let’s play the game and arrive at a Golden Reality!






Trying to Listen and Release

For over nine years I did not watch or read the news. This was intentional. I was giving my mind space to create. What I assumed would be a feeling of separation, became a feeling of deep spiritual connection to the universe itself. I could hear the trees, plants, flowers, clouds, insects and animals speak.
I have now stopped that practice and watch the news and read the newspaper. The years I spent listening to the universe and not watching the news, has given me the tools to listen and release. I listen to the facts and then let it go, clearing my mind and heart for the rest of the day.
A special treat is to watch Good Morning America on ABC in the morning. Shake in hand, standing on the plate of my vibrating machine, I watch the soft news, an entertaining experience. I also enjoy arriving home after work in time to watch the CBS evening news with Scott Pelley. 
Scott makes me feel safe like it’s all going to be okay. In my opinion, Scott is a small breed of reporters with the skill and integrity to report the facts without bleeding his personal opinion, thoughts and beliefs. I respect this. In a digital world where heads are filled with random commentary people believe as truth, we need a lot more Scott Pelley reporting hard news, the raw facts.
Today, though, I feel like I am drowning in feelings of grief and sadness. Another death of a black man, Terence Crutcher, shot by a policewoman, someone we pay to protect, not harm. Listening to his twin sister, Tiffany Crutcher, being interviewed this morning, I hold hope as she does. Maybe this tragic event will be the one to change things.
I don’t know the answer to the violence that seems to threaten black lives in a way I don’t feel threatens white lives. What I do know is fear is a killer. Fear for one’s life makes people react and act reflexively, thinking later.
As a woman, I know the fear of walking down a dark street and crossing over to the other side just because a man, white or black is walking toward me. Having shaved my head, I know what it means to have people afraid of you because of your looks. I know what it means to have people say unkind things to you, but as a white woman, I can never know what it means to be a black person in America. All I can say to the family of Terence Crutcher and to all black men, I am sorry for human fear and ignorance.






Eden Sky: How Time Aligns Us to the Rhythm of Life

Debbie Rosas invites Eden Sky, teacher, author, publisher and Galactic Culture Visionary to speak about her journey and the evolution of galactic time on our planet. Eden has dedicated her life to learning and sharing the wisdom of galactic time through the beautiful calendar she produces every year. Debbie and Eden speak of how through consciously living in natural time, we are connected to and can better navigate the larger rhythm of life.






Judith Aston: Work Smarter, Not Harder

Debbie Rosas speaks with Judith Aston, the creator of Aston® Kinetics, an educational system of movement and bodywork that uniquely treats and works with the asymmetries natural to each person’s body. Judith shares her experience with movement and the body, an interest beginning as a child and eventually leading to her work with Dr. Ida Rolf and the creation of her own program. Listen as Judith shares her wisdom and joy of working with the body.






Regena Thomashauer: Turning Women onto their Power & Pleasure

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/regena-thomashauer-turning-women-onto-their-power-pleasure[/tonedenplayer]






Embracing Change—Life's Constant

If there’s one thing I know, it is that body and life change. Transformation is constant. It is what you and the universe do, and you can either go with or against this constant, this flow of change.

Static does not work. Rigid does not work. Finding and staying in the flow works. The way a body stays healthy is in constant motion, which in and of itself is changing.

This is why in Nia we say, “Through movement we find health.”

Personally, I can tell you that going with the flow, not against is the best choice. Transforming and making changes, alterations in what I do to sustain balance and harmony has made me better at living a body-centered life, and ultimately living a healthy and well life.

If change is a given, how do you ride this wave?

You get in your body and sense the flow of life from your foundation, starting with your feet. You ride the wave, shifting and shifting. You learn to sense what feels right and make adjustments when needed. You transform.

How do your feet feel on the ground? How do your knees feel with each step you take? How does it feel to sway your hips when you move? Learn to tune into your body sensations and have that be your ever-changing guide. The circulation of life is happening through your body. Notice what sensations and changes feel good in your body.

Living life can be a body-centered transformative experience, where the voice of sensation and pleasure guide you. When you’re in the flow and embracing change, transformation is less scary. Instead, choose the single greatest investment in your longevity and overall physical, mental, emotional and spiritual health - embrace change.






Set Yourself Up for Peak Experiences

Self-actualization, peak experiences, transcendental moments are all things I seek and love to experience. For me, this is comparable to being “in the zone” or in the “flow” of my life.

Abraham Maslow in his book, Toward a Psychology of Being, writes that when our physiological base needs (bottom of the pyramid) are partially met - sleep, water and food - we move up into focusing on attaining higher needs related to physical safety, affiliation, social connection and esteem. Above this at the top of the pyramid, he placed self-actualization, defined as the place where people have transient moments called “peak experiences.”

For me, these moments are when everything seems to fill me deeply, fully and my life perfectly fits together. Maslow said, “They are moments of ecstasy which cannot be bought, cannot be guaranteed, cannot even be sought…but one can set up the conditions so that peak experiences are more likely, or one can perversely set up the conditions so that they are less likely.”

I have made it a practice to set myself up for transcendental moments and peak experiences. Making the commitment to go to TEDWomen is one of the actions I have taken. Last year, I left this event transformed and I am setting myself up for the same this year.

Last year, every talk at TEDWomen left me feeling challenged and inspired. My final day at TEDWomen began with a controversial topic: pro-voice. Pro-voice is an approach using listening and storytelling as a tool in order to have respectful, compassionate exchanges about the subject of abortion. Through conversation, pro-voice leaves behind the black and white debate and embraces the gray areas within the personal stories, different ideas, choices and feelings that people experience.

To me this is what TEDWomen is about - an event creating change using voice, choice and inspiring storytelling to make a better world. This is also what my life is about, using my voice and choice to create change.

In our busy worlds, it is important to set aside time for ourselves, for development and ultimately so that “peak experiences are more likely.”

How do you create a “peak experience?"






Dr. Steve Gettinger: Get Out of Your Own Way

Debbie Rosas interviews Dr. Steve Gettinger, chiropractor and martial artist, who is on a lifelong quest to find the secret to longevity, health and power. Dr. Gettinger’s pursuit has led him to combine his knowledge of Western medicine and his Eastern training to address the root and continuation of pain. In this episode, Debbie and Dr. Gettinger discuss his journey of self-healing, why some people do not experience healing with Western medicine alone, how the body must be addressed energetically and most importantly, how people need to get out of their own way.






Do You Know We Have A Problem?

I believe we have a problem, a systemic problem. It is in us and it’s in the world around us. We can’t ignore it. We can no longer stop looking, thinking, feeling and avoiding the hurt. We have to wake up and do something.

At this point in our history, the number of people displaced is at its highest ever, surpassing post-World War II numbers. One out of every 113 people on Earth is displaced from their homes. Being displaced is awful, for refugees and also for someone who feels they are not welcome to be in life.

Everybody wants to feel safe, and home is one of the places we expect to feel secure. As I see it, feeling safe begins in the body, and when who we are and what we believe are challenged, we begin to question if it is safe to be ourselves. We question if it is safe to express who we are, what we think and believe.

I feel pain and am convinced I have to deal with the pain. Maybe one day we won’t need the pain to wake us up but instead of dealing with what’s wrong by putting on band-aids, hoping this temporary solution will make us feel good, feel better, we can look at what is underneath all the pain. When we experience pain, we can awaken out of a deep sleep.

This requires action and healing, and healing requires change. Change requires we find a way to replace the old with something new and better. I believe when we understand the problem, we can fix it. I believe the problem is a lack of the feminine spirit.

The free expression of the feminine spirit in each one of us and in the world is what we need to find, awaken and cultivate. The feminine connects us all - you, me, our body, mind, emotions, spirit, the masculine, feminine and the universe - as one. The expression of a better life is in our hands. By tapping into the feminine spirit we can create peace and harmony in ourselves and in the world.

It is a big idea, which is why I am starting a change project based on awakening the feminine spirit. It is called TAP: The Awakening Project.

I hope you join me in sharing your voice and vision of a newly awakened human!

TAP: The Awakening Project coming early next year.






His, Hers, Ours

When a greater mass moves at a greater speed there is great power.
I find physical body power easier to manage than my mind and emotional power. When I’m on the dance floor and I start moving kinetic energy is created, naturally. Things just move. All I have to do is coordinate my speed and body weight with the pull of gravity to manage my body power and sustain the dance. The dance of my thoughts and feelings is not so easy. Coordinating my want-power with the want-power of others is when I often get caught up in a tug-of-war. I get stuck in wanting to be right and holding on. That’s until I remember the greatest power lies in the feminine spirit. In her, I find the most powerful energy. She’s in me and in you, and now is the time we need to awaken her and use her to make things better. This is why I’ve created the TAP – The Awakening Project.
At any point in evolution, the conflict between men and women vying for power has been part of the story. I want to change this story. I want to create a new vision and a new destiny for humanity, for you and me, for men and women.
The funny thing about power is that it seems to be something we feel we need to be safe.  We believe we deserve it, men and women, and we want to hold onto it, believing if we get the power and hold onto it, things will be better. If I’ve learned anything from studying martial arts and from living in a body, it’s that holding onto power never works. What does work is moving and exchanging power, using it consciously.
Power is in you, in me and it has nothing to do with how big you are, whether you’re male or female, or even how intelligent you are. It’s just waiting to be used and directed. For better or worse we can use power to build or destroy.
All living things are powerful, filled with life force we can use to create better. This is my mission, getting humanity to use their life force to create better human beings and a better world.
Using power is a matter of learning how to coordinate thoughts, feelings, and actions with speed, creating the right timing, and with mass, it’s moving the weight of what you desire in the right direction.
Learning is what I’m talking about. Learning how to live together, men and women working together, and being together, living in harmony and in peace. Perceiving two as more powerful than one and respecting the wisdom gained by honoring all the “he said,” and “she said” sides, finding a new foundation.
I believe the greatest power humanity is lain in the feminine spirit. This is an energy that carries a quality of lightness and receptivity. This is a wisdom that knows how to harness energy and birth new life.
We need to develop mass and speed to harmonize conflict and create peace.  Let’s awaken as many people as possible to their feminine spirit, expanding the mass of this idea.
This is my calling. It has been for a long time, maybe even in my life before this life. I have confidence now and have heard the internal voice saying, “Now is the time, don’t wait.” I know I belong. I know we all belong. That’s not the question. The question is, “How are we going to get along?”
I believe the answer is in awakening the feminine spirit into the world. Let’s begin!
TAP coming February 2017...






Dr. Ellen Albertson: Women + Mid-Life, A Time to Spread Your Wings

Debbie Rosas interviews Dr. Ellen Albertson, the former online Nutrition Expert for Women's Health, Men's Health and The Abs Diet. Debbie and Ellen discuss the topic of the "mid-life" crisis, it's stereotypes and it's sometimes unacknowledged benefits.






Sally Burgess: The Return to Freedom from Life Living in Panic

Debbie Rosas interviews Sally Burgess, owner and dance instructor at Studio Gaia in Edwardsville, Illinois. In dealing with the close aftermath of 9/11, a stressful job, and neglected self care, the two talk about the rejuvenating effects brought forth from dancing Nia.






Is It Men Are From Venus, Women Are From Mars? Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus?

Throw your dreams into space like a kite, and you do not know what it will bring back, a new life, a new friend, a new love, a new country.” 
– Anais Nin
   “A woman with a voice is by definition a strong woman. But the search to find that voice can be remarkably difficult.” 
– Melinda Gates
I’ve been writing a book, Awakening the New Feminine Spirit since 1992. The inspiration for it came when as a young woman.  My heart was captured by someone’s dream, an art exhibit, The Birth Project by Judy Chicago. To make a long story short, like Judy, I decided, I would create something evolutionary and revolutionary to expand the way the feminine spirit is perceived on on the planet. I thought I was doing this with my impending book. My book’s focus, for women, shifted to include men and women. Needless to say this threw a wrench in my plans. It opened up a can of amazing worms that are wheedling their way into my body, mind, emotions, and spirit, and into my writing.
The encouragement to write this book for men and women came from my husband Stuart, and then from my friend Nurit who lives in Jerusalem. Both agreed that what I was writing about was not only a feminine issue it was a shared problem of men and women, and the intent of my work to heal the planet by embracing the feminine energy could not be effective if I did not include both men and women. I agreed and once I did, two things happened: 1) In my life I found myself being asked to step into my feminine and masculine roles in a stronger, clearer way. 2) The two roles: masculine and feminine became something different from what I knew and understood. 
Saying “no” has become a much more conscious and mindful action, and the fallout associated with this is making me stronger. Saying “yes” has also become a more conscious and mindful action. It too does not always satisfy those around me. 
I’ve had to make hard choices and decisions to protect my business, space, body, and life, and the surprise is the people around me think my partner is making these decisions for me. I’ve had to deal with criticism and anger from people about my choices and decisions, and I’ve had to stand my ground. 
I’m realizing that not wearing the pants means taking them off completely, not one leg in and one leg out. I used to think I was surrendering to my partner. NOT! I am now. For the first time in my life I am in partnership with my yin and yang, and with my partner’s Yin and Yang. I’m having fun. I’m finding a new model for me to relate to my woman/man, and to my man’s man/woman. I call it WO-MAN. I’m beginning to actually do what I say, “See the spirit behind the eyes, not the dress or pants. Use your power, yin and yang to create harmony and peace, goodness.”






Between Pink + Blue

I believe the right people will find you and choose to walk with you if they feel aligned with what you do. I also know there is not one, but many paths that lead to being aligned with the warrior’s heart. These days I see myself being a warrior fighting for the feminine spirit. Every cell in my body, all 100 trillion of them, my bones, skin, muscles, organs seem to be connected to something new. A new kind of intricate web with interconnecting energy lines ties me to the flow and secrets of a new kind of energy with the power to cut through hate and fear. I sense new pathways in me, miles of ‘highways’ where a new kind of life force is flowing and awakening the urgency to do something. I feel these highways accelerating my attention through emotions and feelings. 
Every feeling of “I have to do something now” seems to puncture a bit of dead, sleeping space inside me, hitting just the right spiritual meridian point to awaken the feminine spirit in me. Each awakening creates a flow and a new kind of power that is shattering my beliefs, attitudes, thoughts and feelings. This is good. My body, tissues, bones and fluids, which are a part of the universe, are healing. I need healing. The planet needs healing. People need healing if we are to live in harmony and in right alignment with the different and unique beauty of people and cultures. The power I sense in me is in you too. It sits in between the idea of pink and blue. It’s a power I call the awakened new feminine spirit saying, “Let me show you the way.” There is a win-win.






Revolutionizing Revolution

I’ve never been a revolutionary. I am passionate. I am dedicated. I do care about people and the planet and people see me as a leader. I am. But I’ve never felt the need to fight. I do now, but I want to do things differently. I want to revolutionize revolution and in many ways, lead people in the similar way I have led people to get in their bodies, develop and grow using pleasure and love. My thinking has always been that peace and harmony start with each one of us sensing them in our body, connecting to sensation inside us to know what “right” feels like so we can make better choices and decisions. I feel more than ever humanity and the world are dependent on us doing better without fighting. With more than seven billion people in the world some of us can make a difference. 
While I’ve never held up a sign and marched to protest injustice, I am keenly aware that women have always been a tremendous driving force behind progressive reform. I want to reform what is and feel increasingly more compelled to take part in a global peace movement to combat racism and hate and make improvements in the lives of all people. Just like the Progressive Era at the turn of the century changed the role of women in economics, society, and politics and waves of immigrants arrived in America, the entire world is being asked to progress and support the wave of change. 
We are all cosmic creatures. We earth-walk, moon-walk, sun-walk, and cloud-walk, everyday. Invisible to the naked eye is the gift of life force surging though our veins. If we’re lucky we’re given yet another moment, day, week, and year. To receive the blast of conscious inspiration gives us the potential for change and transformation. Riding on the breath of the feminine spirit I believe we can birth something new and better. I feel her in and around me, seamlessly radiating from every cell in my body, dancing from the tops of the trees, on the wings of birds, and in between the wag of a dogs tail, carrying the profound message of a good and better life for us all.






Lissa Rankin: Following the Spiritual Path

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/lissa-rankin-following-the-spiritual-path[/tonedenplayer]






A Moment of Reflection

I find myself saying, “I am so lucky,” that’s until I sit back and allow myself to reflect on the forty years of working to create, build and share something I believe in, Nia. Nia in my opinion is still the very best movement art workout, practice, and lifestyle guide for enhancing people’s health and well being and for achieving pleasurable sustainability in the body, ever created. 
These past two weeks, first 7 days in Budapest, then in Paris, I have been saying “I am lucky” every day, almost as if it has become a mantra resting in my heart.   The use of the word “lucky” is honestly a weak attempt to define what I am feeling and experiencing when there is no perfect word, no one word to describe the depth of my emotions.
I came to Budapest and Paris with Stuart to celebrate Nia, to meet these Nia communities of teachers and students, to celebrate with them to dance with them and to thank them for their love of Nia. The Budapest community is celebrating 15 years of Nia in Hungary. The Paris community is celebrating their 10th anniversary.  Never could I have imagined Nia reaching over boarders and touching the hearts of so many, but she has, and I believe when I am gone, she will continue, I hope so. The future of Nia is very important to me, and Stuart. We’re doing what we can to make sure Nia lives on. The world needs her. 
Budapest is an amazing city. Extra special this time of year as I love Christmas and Budapest dresses for Christmas! Lights, the smell of chestnuts and mulled wine, trees adorned with ornaments, families together out and about walking through the Christmas Market, surrounded and bundled up to brave the cold, I love every bit of it. 
Budapest people are warm, engaging, and authentically joyful, something I believe people in the United States need more of. Maybe this comes from having lived during a time of Communist rule, maybe it is the deeply rooted culture they so proudly share, I’m not sure, but it is palpable. My time with the teachers and students was shared in a one and half hour master class, a seven hour Taste of Nia Workshop (mix of all Nia programs), and the two-day FreeDance Training. All events were well attended, the gratitude for Nia, touching, inspiring and really so much for me to take in. And I felt lucky as we sat the last evening packed into a small café sharing stories, breaking bread and toasting life together!
Arriving in Paris I had hoped for yet another Christmas bonanza. Paris does a beautiful job of sharing the spirit of the season, not quite to the level of Budapest, but we are in Paris one of the most beautiful cities in the world.  
We arrived early. Stuart and I were able to spend time walking, talking, dreaming, and working together, sitting in the hotel lobby drinking tea while everyone in the U.S. was asleep; perfect. Walking is one of the things we love to do in a city. It’s the best way for us to just be and see. These are really our best times together. With few distractions we quickly re-connect with the innocence of the loving spirit that drew us together so many years ago, 23 years.  I feel as if I am on a mini honeymoon. 
Last night was the opening event for the Paris experience. Held at a performance space, we watched the most magical performance by Nia students, beautifully curated by long-time Nia teacher Regine Petite. I felt like I was in a movie, a movie of my life. Acting as the master of ceremonies was a lovely, beautiful spirit of a man an actor/Nia student who announced and described each performance in French; it didn’t matter. I somehow understood what was happening. 
Sitting in the audience I was transported back in time as I listened to music across the ages of Nia, watched almost every element of Nia come to life on the dance floor from emotional expression to the heel lead, hand gestures, the nine art forms, and pearls of choreography strung and woven together in a tapestry performance, not one principle left out, not one element forgotten. I felt as if I was at the graduation ceremony of my child. A child that has grown to a level of maturity and mastery unimaginable for even the most optimistic of parents. I cannot imagine feeling more proud. The final dance was an invitation for the entire audience to come onto the dance floor and dance together, followed by food and champagne, of course we are in Paris; I felt lucky! And still I seek a sense, a word, a way to adequately describe, a feeling of good fortune, respect, gratefulness, love, pride and humbleness. 
Until I find the perfect phrase, words, I am simply left with the less than complete expression, “ I feel lucky.”






Christmas Time

Christmas is always bitter sweet for me. This year I felt the bitter stronger than ever. A husband of a dear Nia teacher died, the announcement of a friend with cancer, the horror of Aleppo, the fear surrounding the soon to be inauguration of our new President. I’ll stop there.

And so it is. Life. Up and down, in and out, the good, bad and the ugly, all wrapped up into a thing we call “life” and the one thing we cherish, hang on to and fight for. I pray the “fight” will go away, as there is enough food, air, water, and earth for all. We just have to figure “it” out. The “it” of living life in peace and harmony, in joy, celebrating each breath, as life can go away in a split second, so I hang on to each moment the best I can. I go to the mall and listen to sounds. I stop in for coffee and take in the family reconnections, children home for the holidays. I call people I have not spoken to in a while to share love. I put bows on presents and give thanks that I am able to buy and give presents. I go for a walk dressed in my beautiful coat and clothes and appreciate the gift of abundance. I read my friends daily blog about her life, including what she ate that day and smile at the privilege it is to take time to reflect on such things. I read the newspaper and watch the news and weep for those who are not as lucky as I, and I pray hard, really hard. I get down on my knees and let GOD know I mean business. Enough. Enough, and I hear a voice say, “Okay, enough, then do something about it”. I write a letter to a senator, I call people and send emails of good wishes to people who think I have wronged them. I take old clothes to the homeless. I pray harder! Let's all pray harder and do better.






What's Right is Right!

I often think about how far we’ve come as women, as human beings. Then I remember that the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granting American women the right to vote only happened on August 18, 1920, and that the Voting Rights Act giving blacks the right to vote was only signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on August 6, 1965! We haven’t come a long way baby and we have a lot of work to do, so let’s get to it and start by gaining knowledge.
Doing my research, I found this article on the MS. Magazine blog titled: 10 Things The American Women Could Not Do Before 1970. As a woman born in 1951 who graduated High School in 1969, and who did the good-girl thing by getting married to her hometown boyfriend and having her first baby at 21, I never thought about rights. My way of life was normal, or I thought so. I couldn’t take shop class, had to have a special letter of permission to take drafting, couldn’t wear pants to school, and could not be on the track team because I was a girl. I was expected to learn how to sew an apron rather than build something in shop class.
Enjoy this walk down the women’s history lane from the MS. Blog:
“So while we still have a long way to go to secure total equality for women, we can celebrate how far we’ve come” but better yet, let’s read this and get motivated to do something, say something, and stand up for better rights for all people.
Before the 1970s, an American woman could not:

    Keep her job if she was pregnant: Until the Pregnancy Discrimination Act in 1978, women could be fired from their workplace for being pregnant.
    Report cases of sexual harassment in the workplace: The first time that a court recognized sexual harassment in the workplace was in 1977 and it wasn’t until 1980 that sexual harassment was officially defined by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
    Be acknowledged in the Boston Marathon: Women could not don their running shoes until 1972!
    Get a credit card: Until the Equal Credit Opportunity Act in 1974, women were not able to apply for credit. In 1975, the first women’s bank was opened.
    Refuse to have sex with her husband: The mid 70s saw most states recognize marital rape and in 1993 it became criminalized in all 50 states. Nevertheless, marital rape is still often treated differently to other forms of rape in some states even today.
    Compete as a boxer in the Olympics: It wasn’t until the 2012 London Olympics that women could compete in boxing in the Olympics. This was marked with the amazing victory by Britain’s Nicola Adams.
    Get a divorce with some degree of ease: Before the No Fault Divorce law in 1969, spouses had to show the faults of the other party, such as adultery, and could easily be overturned by recrimination.
    Celebrate International Women’s Day: In 1980 President Carter declared one week in March to be National Women’s History Week, including International Women’s Day on March 8th.
    Have a legal abortion in most states: The Roe v. Wade case in 1973 protected a woman’s right to abortion until viability.
 Read Ms. Magazine! Ms. was launched as a sample inset in New York Magazine in 1971.

By the way, one of the first articles written about Nia was featured in the MS. Magazine, and on top of that was written by Nia student Joanne Edgar from New York. It’s a small world.
I feel a bit more confident in our world by reading these words of soon to be missed President Obama: "I would argue that during the entire eight years that I've been president, that spirit of America has still been there in all sorts of ways," he explained. "It manifests itself in communities all across the country. We see it in this younger generation that is smarter, more tolerant, more innovative, more creative, more entrepreneurial, would not even think about, you know, discriminating somebody against, for example, because of their sexual orientation.”






Can you see it, a new vision + voice of the feminine?

Birthing anything takes patience. Carrying and nurturing life takes energy. Most of all it requires knowing the right time to birth, to let what is in you go.
In 1992 something started to grow in my consciousness, in my heart, and in my emotional being, fueled by my inquisitive revolutionary spirit who has always been dedicated to change for better. It’s 2016 and I’m teetering on the edge of now or not now? I’m attempting to perceive when the right time to birth my Awakening Project is. It’s been a long time carrying my idea and belief that awakening the power of the feminine spirit in humanity can create peace. If not “her” then who? If not “us” then who? This is the question I have asked myself, and it is the one I am asking others to think about and take action. The action I see is individual, community and globally oriented. One where people come together to talk and explore and create a new vision for humanity where the feminine and the masculine powers are balanced. She and he speak fearlessly and do what they do best and also do what the other does in the right time and way to sustain balance. Understanding that masculine and feminine are fascinating energies and qualities that compliment each other, I see a world where the feminine and masculine are free to “be” and “do”. Where the feminine is celebrated for the energetic ability to “be” and to express emotions, heal, nurture, collaborate, lead, protect, be flexible and open, attract, and birth life. Where the masculine is celebrated for the energetic ability to “do” and be aggressive, assertive, analytical, protective, confident, demonstrative, and active. I see a world where men and women are not competing but loving and honoring. Can you see it, a new vision and voice of the feminine?
Many people have come to help me develop The Awakening Project but I need more, many more people willing to help create a better world. I believe art is a way to have a positive effect on our planet by awakening them through dance, mime, song, sculpture, chanting, poetry, drama, storytelling, writing, and/or theatre, all ways each one of us can express what is inside to affect individual lives and the collective behavior of the world. Each one us, separate as an individual and basic unit with power to change the world and create peace. We can do this by enhancing and optimizing ourselves as one of those powerful basic units. There is a great deal we can do for the world on a grand scale to create peace and harmony. Awakening the Feminine Spirit is my prayer for peace in physical form. I hope you will consider joining me. Find out more at debbierosas.com/AWAKENING.






The New Year, + the Always Changing I

The New Year has come and gone. January 7th is upon me and if I am true to my word, I will do things differently, better. I will at least attempt to attempt to make right one of my New Year’s Resolutions. 

 

Home yesterday, nursing feeling not so well and watching one of my favorite TV shows House Hunters, I had time to think. I often find myself doing deep thinking while surrounded by the distraction of the sound of the television. I was thinking about communication and wondering how my guy, Stuart, and I could improve our interpersonal communication, something we both want. Having just listened to a talk on “Living 10% Happier” with Robert Thurman, a Buddhist monk and author of the new book, Man of Peace, an illustrated life story of the Dali Lama, and anchor Dan Harris, I was inspired to talk to Stuart about us both consciously bringing in more of a Buddhist philosophy into our communication style. 

 

Buddhism is not new to Stuart. When we met he was a practicing Buddhist. He had a community, a temple he attended, and a chanting partner who lived in the apartment above him while he was going to school to study video production. I loved coming to his apartment door and hearing him chant. I never interrupted this private moment with his chanting partner, a woman from China who barely spoke English. Upon hearing them chanting I would quietly turn with my back to the door and sit down in the hallway, listening and sensing the resonance of their prayer move through me. I had no idea what they were saying, but I knew it was good. It felt good. I always left feeling centered, happy, and transformed. He always chanted before his performance as a musician. I miss his chanting.

 

Buddhism is new to me. Like many others who have read the book, The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying, written by Sogyal Rinpoche in 1992, I have flippantly expressed I know about Buddhism. Not true. To know something, really know it, means you have to practice and embody it as more than an idea, more than words. I have not done this with Buddhism. I have done this with the body, which is why I know and can sense the truth about whether I know and embody something. Let’s just say I’m a beginner, and my level of knowledge about enlightenment, compassion, meditation and karma is thin, which motivates me even more to know more. Stuart regularly says, “Nothing starts without a conversation,” which is why it’s important to keep working on improving one’s communication style so the struggle between becomes less and less. Don’t for one-minute think Stuart has this communication thing handled! He doesn’t. What he does have is an insatiable appetite for learning how to do life better, for how to be better and for how to reach potential while on his path. 

 

The conversation Stuart and I had last night was different. I believe the difference was having a playing ground created by both of us agreeing to let go of struggle and to be responsible for creating peace. We listened better and in the end, felt better.

 

If you don’t know anything about the Buddhist Four Noble Truths that comprise the essence of Buddha's teachings, they are: 1) the truth of suffering, 2) the truth of the cause of suffering, 3) the truth of the end of suffering, 4) and the truth of the path that leads to the end of suffering.

 

Today is a good day to let go of suffering and yes to peace.

 

To hear Robert Thurman and Dan Harris talk go to: http://abcnews.go.com/Health/video/10-happier-robert-thurman-renowned-buddhist-scholar-44015024






Taking the Lid Off and Both Feet In

Nothing happens alone. Something I have always known is that collaboration is key.
 
The “lid coming off” is inspired by what I believe is a deeper commitment to embracing a Buddhist philosophy in my life. Not being halfway in, but all the way, one hundred percent, with both feet in. The lid came off yesterday at a meeting with a company Stuart and I have been researching to support our Global Nia vision. It is a company rooted in excellent technology and more importantly, the beliefs, ideals, and a shared philosophy of what we feel are aligned with us at our core. The lid coming off continued today when Karri Winn and I returned to the same company for another meeting. After each meeting I decided to walk for an hour around Portland, directed by my spirit to walk in areas I was unfamiliar with, to sit and pray and meditate and eat lunch in someplace new, to sense the lid off and to reinvigorate my one hundred trillion cells. 

I woke up this morning after the first meeting to find an invitation from one of the women I met in my first meeting. She invited me to participate as a presenter at the Women’s Economic Forum in India in May 2017. Now that’s taking the lid off! After the second meeting I was shown an even bigger picture for Nia and for my work to be shared as I have always envisioned - Applying my work to further inspire people to feel, to heal, and to help people heal so they live well and die well. This is my purpose and my soul, this is my spirit dream. After my walk I returned to find a note from Nia Brown Belt teacher Sharon Fein, asking me to write a letter about my experience at last year’s Compassion Fatigue Symposium, who is also the brainchild and part of Ed-U-Care. I found myself feeling deeply grateful to her for the opportunity to share Nia and my philosophy of the body’s way as it relates to healing. I was filled with gratitude as I wrote from my heart about my shared experiences with healers and how to heal thyself. When I was finished I sat back and felt an overwhelming sense of sadness coming from the awareness that within my company of healers, there still exists such struggle, conflict, and competition to be better. 

There is a difference between striving to be the best and to be the one on top, versus striving to be your best, with the desire to fulfill yourself and to ultimately step into your own greatness. I realize taking the lid off of gratitude, shared financial success, sacred livelihoods, compassion, love, community, cooperation from an idea and bringing it into reality requires people to transform - and when it comes to individual transformations, it is mindful to remember - you can’t push the river, it flows by itself. All I can do is have compassion, hold my heart love in, sustain my vision, and be willing to walk, fall down, get back up again, take the lid off and be here with both feet in, committed to be better, and committed to living the big picture vision.






My Animal Body

The first real Saturday of the New Year for me is the one following January 1st. It feels special to me. It is the reclaimed optimism that fuels me to wake up earlier, to do what is needed to entertain myself and believing that I make things happen. This feeling is based on the motivational tension I experience between two important factors - 1) Believing everything will happen in the right time - so relax, and as the Beetle’s famously said, “Let It Be” and 2) Follow the Nike way and “Just Do It,” because if you don’t, it won’t happen. Both of these statements stem from fear, and part of my life philosophy is to make conscious body and life choices based out of love, not fear. 
 
Philosophy is something I am interested in as a tool to examine my life, the things I believe to be true and help me to live a beautiful and wholesome life. Aesthetic beauty and inner beauty are deeply important to me as well, and while they both go hand in hand, I feel it is something we have lost, particularly in America. I believe people are afraid of beauty; The power of beauty, the attraction and interactions that can occur from sharing, exposing, and acknowledging beauty in one’s self, in others and in the world. This can be frightening if you don’t understand the power of beauty and what it can bring. I was fortunate enough to have grown up in a household where beauty of the body, the person, home and life were consciously celebrated and expressed.
 
I recently read a two-part article in Philosophy Now, by Mary Midgley, a woman who lectured at the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne until 1980. Midgley’s best known books include Beast and Man, Wickedness, The Ethical Primate, Science and Poetry, and The Owl of Minerva, A Memoir. In 2011 she was given a Philosophy Now Award for Contributions in the Fight Against Stupidity. In my opinion stupidity is a battle worth fighting for. The perception of "ugly" is an unproductive way of thinking and feeling, especially when the body and world we live in are naturally beautiful.
 
Midgley says, “Philosophy, like speaking prose, is something we have to do all our lives, well or badly, whether we notice it or not. What usually forces us to notice it is conflict. And on the matter of our animal nature a pretty mess of conflicts has arisen – between different elements in the common sense tradition, between common-sense and various learned studies, between those learned studies themselves, and between all these and the remarkable facts turned up by those who, in the last few decades, have taken the trouble to observe dispassionately the behavior of other species.” 
 
I have always believed that human beings would be better off living life through a body I call, our Animal Body. This is the body that keeps us away from stupidity and focuses on expressing our beauty by connecting us to the sensory intelligence of our body, mind, emotions and spirit. This awareness brings us closer to making better decisions and life choices. I believe this way is the right way. When we are able to use our senses, our intuition, and understand that every human being is like a single cell; A powerhouse -  The basic building block of life, each with a highly specialized part to play, fulfilling a particular role in this lifetime. Some call this specialized role our purpose, and others call it destiny. If you are lucky to grow up in a household where your individuality and uniqueness is nurtured, you have a good chance at stepping into your specialized role, and if not, you may find yourself stumbling through life looking everywhere for a core connection, love, spirituality and success. All things I believe naturally come to us by following our purpose.
 
I was inspired by the work of Jane Goodall to live life through my Animal Body. Jane Goodall, considered to be the world's foremost expert on chimpanzees who is best known for her 55-year study of social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees in Gombe Stream National Park, Tanzania. My second inspiration is from David Attenborough, the famous English broadcaster and naturalist. Each individual has helped me reconnect to the extraordinary intelligence of animals and our planet. Both of whom in my opinion, are visionaries living their purpose, sharing their greatness and fighting the war on stupidity.
 
I believe I can live “life as art” and that part of living life artfully involves understanding that I too, am an animal, and that my body and my life are expressions of universal art, and that living life through my Animal Body is by its very nature harmonious and “aesthetically” beautiful. Beauty as art is an expression, something that George Collingwood, English philosopher, historian and archaeologist awakened in me through his philosophical work, The Principles of Art. 
 
Collingwood said, “…the aesthetic procedure is one whereby the artist and spectator jointly come to realize, to come to know, certain mental states.” He viewed art as a fundamental expression and the word ‘art’ surreptitiously as having multiple meanings. Art as an essential part of the mind, not just a special activity that poets go in for.
 
I believe we are expressive beings - feeling, sensing, thinking animals capable of taking only what we need, and participating artfully in the balance and harmony needed to sustain a beautiful life. We are capable of creating a happy and healthy world of good human beings, and a thriving planet giving us everything we need to survive. 
 
For me it takes both believing everything will happen in the right time, and doing what I believe is making a difference. Living my life better this year, making conscious body and life choices based out of love, not fear… this is my goal. Keeping connected and continuing my awareness to my Animal Body is what makes me feel beautiful today, tomorrow and every following day thereafter. I am free to express and share my beauty. I breathe more deeply. I see more clearly. I sense more acutely and I think from the mind of oneness and where I am connected to the wisdom and heart of the human, chimpanzee, dolphin and earth being.






Energy Follows Attention

It is 6:40AM and I am on a plane headed to New York. My wish was to spend the weekend in New York at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, as it will be closing, come February. I will turn 66 on Monday, and this is my birthday gift from my husband, Stuart. As my birthday approaches I am consumed with two questions: “How did I use my time over the past 65 years, and, how will I use my time as a 66 year old woman, moving forward?” 
 
My birthday has always been a day of keen awareness for me, especially when reflecting on the past I leave behind, with the future I plan to pursue ahead; A future that is waiting for me to take hold and do something I have always dreamt of doing. As Monday approaches, I will keep my positive energy and I will be aware of the new birth within myself, within others and the changing world around me.
 
I am watching the TV monitor, switching back and forth from CNN, NBC, ABC and FOX networks, sensing tears flow down my cheeks. I fight the urge to sob, and I am surprised by how emotional I feel… how moved I am by the inauguration of our new president. I use the camera on my phone to take a picture of my face so I can capture how I am feeling. It is a moment of true emotion, one that should be remembered.
 
For the second time in my life I feel deeply patriotic. The first time was in school when we stood and pledged allegiance to the flag every morning. I loved this ritual. My World War II parents taught me that the American flag was something to respect and honor, something to never take for granted. They also taught me that freedom and liberty were things to fight for and protect. Though, when we were younger, they didn’t understand when my sister burned her bra, or when I made posters to protest Kent State… which by the way was the most violent thing I ever did to protest something I felt was wrong. I have always been more of a pacifist.
 
The future is now driven by a man who says, “I will never let you down.” Who says, “One nation, one heart, our home, a glorious destiny, protecting the people and America - America first.” With all that being said, I really hope so. I do feel afraid, but within that fear I also have hope and faith. I will always believe WE can do better, and that I can do better for myself and for you. This is the energy I want to hold in my mind and in my heart to create change. Positive transformation takes time, and for a split second, there is a moment that kicks the wheels into motion in order to create change. This energy follows the attention of someone, or some group… This is why I am always critical of how I think and what I do. The wheels of energy are always in motion. 
 
I will hold love in my heart and do what I can to support global freedom and rights for everyone. I will do what I can to make America feel loved, strong and safe again. I will live by the words I speak and the words I believe in. I will trust in the divine goodness of humanity. Yes, there is a lot of healing to be done and a lot of work to accomplish to make this world a better place. So let’s take the next step in kicking those wheels into motion in a peaceful way, guided by love and understanding.
 
I land in New York in a few hours. When I step foot on the ground I will have a new President. Change is constant, and always moving in directions we can’t quite see at first glance. The good news is, our new President is lucky to be walking into something better than what our previous President, Barack Obama, received when he took office eight years ago. Isn’t that the way it is supposed to be? Aren’t we supposed to leave behind a better world than the one we inherited? I hope so. I will hold my vision for a better world and do what I can to create a new and better destiny for humanity. I am calling upon my feminine spirit to speak up, stand up, and do what SHE knows is best, during this time of change and rebirth.






We March

The march is today, an event started by a grandmother’s vision and desire to “do” something to create change. I understand change, and I personally know what it takes to start change and sustain it. I have been sustaining change for over forty years, shifting people’s perception from, “It has to be hard or it won’t work” into “The path of the least resistance, joy and pleasure is the way”. When I think of the one thing a change maker needs to sustain its focus, and when I think of the one thing a movement dedicated to change needs, is the people.

I am encouraged and keep faith and have hope for our future because of the people. I believe people are inherently good and kind. Hate, prejudice, violence, I believe this is something learned. These things reflect an illness in our society, sickness among some people caused from fear and ignorance, and from not understanding how as humans in a body, with a mind, emotions, and a unique spirit we are made and coded to behave and live. Like Michelle Obama says, “Take the high road” as this is a choice we have as human beings, and it is a good one.

Last night at dinner my family got into what I felt was a very heated argument over President Drumpf. The assumptions, stories, beliefs flew back and forth. I sat silent, but I listened. I took the Aikido route, wanting to hear and see everyone’s point of view. In their heart, when one is professing their beliefs they believe they are right. That is where we get into trouble. Believing we are right and the other one is wrong. Only time will tell, and in the meantime, we all must walk the path of our heart. It is the oath of ego and ignorance, hate, vengeance, and power over another, dominance that takes one on a path with no heart.

It took a lot of deep breathing to listen and not become taken out by my emotions. It was my experience as a martial artist that allowed me to be in peace. The martial arts are about peace and control, not anger and aggression, simply controlling my perceptions, which is the reality I am in, and where my feelings, the words that turn into sensations in my body, come from.

Many of us look at and judge the world and the people in it. We do this through a lens of our experiences. Having studied the brain, I know the brain processes my perceptions into thoughts it translates into feelings. Now 66, I have a lot stored in my body and brain that can affect my emotional responses. As a Sacred Athlete, playing the game of life on the field of my life, I am always attempting to modulate and control my emotions for a better response and outcome. I can only control myself, not the other person’s responses.

I know everything I think produces the emotions I feel. This is why I sat in silence at the table last night not thinking. I wanted to use the emotions of love and compassion to consciously hold space for people’s differences, and not let my emotions take me down.

How do we inspire people to get involved and hold the mindset and emotional integrity to find peaceful solutions? I believe it is by recognizing that peaceful resolution is utilizing mindful self-defense tools to sustain focus, attention and keeping calm so things do not become violent. Let’s remember that our neural-pathways are pliable and can be changed!






My 66th Birthday

Nothing feels like it has changed much overnight… yet I know, that everything has. It is official. I am 66. My skin, my cells, all of me is moving on in this spaceship called a body. I am a time traveler living on Earth with the ability to travel in mind anywhere, anytime. I can fly, climb mountains, be a circus performer and drop into being five or fifteen years old in this 66 year-old body. What a gift, and to me the best ever.
 
Several years ago my mother gave her personal diary as a gift. Curled up in a chair in her living room with Earl Grey tea in hand, I read it from front to back. It changed my relationship with her as a woman and as my mother. It also shifted my perspective on what it means to live life in love. It inspired me to write a book with her, “Keeping Our Mother’s Stories Alive”. I released this last year as a surprise for her on Mother’s Day. It’s a simple book that allows everyone the opportunity to intimately gather details about the person and people who mothered them.
 
The pages are filled with anecdotes of a young woman leaving her home in London to start a new life in America. Pictures, letters and post cards, some of which my dad sent to his mother were also included, which gave me a peek at who my young father was.

One of my favorite postcards is one my father sent to his parents from London where he was to marry my Mother before they moved to America to begin their lives together. It reads, “Dearest Mother and Dad, going to miss you both, but will be thinking of you on this important day of your son’s life. Just want to thank you for the wonderful life you have given me. I hope that I can make my marriage as successful as yours and Dad’s. We both send our love to you and regret not being able to see you at our wedding.
 
Your Loving Son,
Arthur
August 16, 1944”
 
I believe stories and myths are valuable in reawakening a connection in us.
 
My mom and dad instilled in me a profound desire to love and express love, to be kind and to do better every day. They taught me to live and dream, and to connect beyond my family of origin and include the spiritual family of humanity. Today I close my eyes and give them thanks for my life and I can hear their words and feel in my heart, “It’s going to be okay honey, do what you need to do, believe in yourself, and believe in love.”
 
We are all on the same road of life, living in a body and on our way to becoming ancestors. It is our birthright and spiritual work to make things better, which is why “Awakening the New Feminine Spirit,” is something I will speak about every day and in every way. I am committed to making things better. I still want to make mom and dad proud. Birthdays are to reflect, celebrate, center and recommit. I am grateful I celebrate everything, I am clear, I am grounded, I see today and tomorrow like a movie unfolding in real time, I continued to be inspired by all of life within me and beyond me. I am excited to step into my future self. This is my very happy 66th birthday. I am blessed.






Perceptions of Time

Time is a funny thing. It is our life variable that is either increasing or decreasing. Even when we think we have so much of it, I feel like I never have enough of it. I find myself wanting my time to either speed up or slow down, and what worries me is that I know at some point, my time will run out... and so will yours. This got me thinking about how in these times of unrest, maybe it’s best to get a handle on my perception of how I use my time, and about what I think! These days it’s easy for me to get caught up in the hate, fear, anger and rage, and waste my time in worry and negative thinking. I’ve decided this year I will spend my time in the “now” mindset. I have consciously decided to think better and have more constructive thoughts.

Lee Smolin, a professor, author and an outspoken critic of the block-universe idea said, “The future is not now real and there can be no definite facts of the matter about the future.” What is real is “the process by which future events are generated out of present events.” In Smolin’s book, Rebirth of Time, he argued persuasively that any adequate cosmology rests on making time and “now” fundamental. The "now" is where laws evolve in one universe, and the future is open to unknowable novelty.
 
I am not sure how I can make time and "now" fundamental, but I do know I can make better use of my time. It helps a lot when I perceive one universe, and see the future as open to unknowable novelty.






Presidents' Day - Celebrating Choice, Voice and Freedom

I must admit, Presidents’ Day has never compelled me to celebrate it as a holiday before - I think this was because I didn’t quite know what to celebrate. Am I supposed to celebrate past Presidents? The current President? Or should I celebrate President’s like Kennedy and Bush, the Presidents I was somewhat engaged with? This year it became clear to me that living in America, I am celebrating a bigger idea: choice, voice, and freedom. Three important words that if taken away would make my world, and the world around us all, the world we all share and live in, something very different.
 
Having had parents who lived through World War II, these three words were the focus of many lofty conversations around our dinner table. Dinner time was how I discovered my voice, where I shared my opinion, and developed the confidence to share what I believe is real and true for me. It is how I learned to listen and respect someone else’s opinion. No one ever left the table feeling wrong. We walked away feeling energized by meaningful and honest  conversation, shrouded in respect for our opinion and varied perceptions, all the result of people who cared about life.
 
These days I avoid conversations about politics, especially when it comes to our current President and the political stances that have been made. The kinds of conversations being held today create anger and righteousness rather than meaningful, respectful conversations.  
 
As I sit in Baltimore, Maryland I am surrounded by history that speaks to choice, voice, and freedom. Historically Maryland was one of the original 13 colonies, a state that chose not to join the confederacy during the Civil War, and the place where one of the first statutes granting religious liberty of any kind gave voice to the freedom of religion. I find myself deeply aware of how the men and women of the past have made it possible for me to have my choice, voice, and freedom. This is something that I will celebrate today, and continue to celebrate every day.






Black History Month

Every year during Black History month I reflect on my personal history as a young, white, high school girl living in St. Louis, Missouri. Several events led to my awareness that segregation and racism was real. The first encounter was when I realized one of my friends was not allowed in my house. As the boy said to me, “You have a picture of a naked “N” woman on your living room wall”. Up until then I had not noticed she was black. The second event came when I invited my friend Anita over for a sleep over. We worked together at Sears in the clothing department. The day after Anita and I had our sleep over several of the neighbors showed up to my house to complain to me and my mother about the fact that it was not good for the neighborhood for us to invite in “N”. It was dangerous. I made a commitment that day to do what I could to raise people’s awareness, and to educate people as much as possible as to the power of love. My way has not been to talk, but to have people feel and sense what love, hate, pleasure and pain feel like in their body, as I believe by feeling we can heal.
 
I have had many events in my life that have broken my heart, but none more powerful in opening my eyes to the hate and ignorance that exists in the world. I learned this at a young age, as a naive little girl who was opened up to a different reality.
 
I pray harder this month. I think of Anita more often. I take longer to feel and I let myself feel more deeply. I take in the reality of the hardships black lives face everyday. I often say, ”I am so sorry” for people’s ignorance. In my own way, I try harder to heal the hate and pain.


“If you can’t fly then run, if you can’t run then walk, if you can’t walk then crawl, but whatever you do, you have to keep moving forward.” 
—Martin Luther King, Jr.






International Women's Day

“When I dare to be powerful, to use my strength in the service of my vision, then it becomes less and less important whether I am afraid.” 
― Audre Lorde

 
Like many women, there are days I want to scream at the top of my lungs, “I am a woman, I am valuable, listen, do something about the abuse, do something about the violence, do something about the sex trafficking, do something about the hatred and fear!”
 
There is power in letting it out, letting it go and speaking your mind whenever or wherever. We are not there yet. Not every feminine spirit is free to BE, which is why we must continue to have special days to celebrate and shine the light on “she”. There are too many people still asleep and living in denial. Too many people who think life is okay when it isn’t! We need change. We need to put a new face, voice and vision on the Feminine Spirit and set her free. This is what my Awakening Project is dedicated to. For now, I will sit alone and feel grateful for my life as a woman living in America. I have had the freedom and privilege to choose and dream. 

I have not had to dig deep for courage like the sixteen women imprisoned and raped by Serb-led forces in the Bosnian town of Foca did. These women broke history’s great silence, risked their lives and moved forward to take the witness stand in an international court of law. Their voices made a difference.
 
I am not an icon, hero or a legend like Leymah Gbowee, author of the book, Mighty Be Our Powers, and mother of six who helped organize and lead the Liberian Mass Action for Peace, a coalition of Christian and Muslim women who sat in public protest, had a sex strike, and confronted Liberia's ruthless president and rebel warlords.

I am Debbie Rosas, dedicated to being courageous and becoming an icon, a hero and a legend in my own way and in my own time.
 
For those of us lucky enough to live in a part of the world where we have the freedom to speak out, I say, “Speak out!” Whether it is a TED talk, in print, on a forum, on radio or television, on your iPhone, at a town hall meeting, through a website, or on the Internet... use the resources and opportunities you have to speak your mind, share your story and use your voice.
 
On this International Women’s Day, ask yourself, “What can I do? What will I do?”






Lissa Rankin & Trevor Hart: Spiritual Healing

Debbie Rosas speaks with Lissa Rankin, New York Times bestselling author, physician, speaker, founder of the Whole Health Medicine Institute and mystic, and Trevor Hart, sage, spiritual teacher and spiritual healer, on sustaining the thoughts and attitude we need to turn cognition into healing and living a spiritual, passionate, and healthy life in our body in alignment with the laws of the universe, peacefully and joyfully with each other.






The Auckland Nia Community

It was  in 1998 when Carlos and I were invited to come and teach the first Nia White Belt training in New Zealand. Lita had been living in New Zealand and loved Nia, and Joanne was from New Zealand with a passion for anything related to fitness. They found each other and began to travel around and share what we were doing with Nia. Their passion attracted 28 people to the first White Belt training. The rest was history in the making. Teachers and students came together to create a community of like-minded body lovers who knew that pleasure is the way.
 
Last night I had the pleasure of stepping into my first event of a five-week trip starting in Auckland, New Zealand, with Brown Belt teacher and Dance Yes Manifest producer, Sally Cook.   Nestled among trees, the room had been prepared for my arrival. Fifty-people,  with faces glowing,  all of whom came to dance with me. How magical it is to know that something I felt inside inspired me to do this for myself,  which has touched so many lives. I can’t  help but think of trainer Ken Gilbert, Lita Curtis and Joanne Melbourne while I was there -  the two women  who helped bring Nia to this part of the world. Their presence filled my body and soul when I thought of them, and I felt them with me.  This room was filled because of them.
 
What I can say for sure is we never do anything alone. It is good to remember the ones who came before you, and stood by you through thick and thin. Remember to give gratitude and thanks to those who deserve it.






2014 12 29 The Art Of Choice And Manifesting- Stepping Into 2015

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-12-29-the-art-of-choice[/tonedenplayer]






2014 11 3 Living As A Sensation Scientist- Sensing Oneness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-11-3-living-as-a[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 7 Awareness Of Central Nervous System- Sensing Transceiving w/ Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-7-awareness-of-central[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 6 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Perception

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-6-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 9 8 Awareness Of Endocrine System- Sensing Change

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-9-8-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 7 7 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Creation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-7-7-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 6 9 Awareness Of Excretory System- Sensing Release

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-6-9-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 5 5 Awareness Of Respiratory System- Sensing Inspiration

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-5-5-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 4 7 Awareness Of Digestive System- Sensing Nourishment With Guest Speaker Ada Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-4-7-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 3 3 Awareness Of Lymphatic System- Sensing Vitality

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-3-3-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 2 3 Awareness Circulatory System- Sensing Pulse

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-2-3-awareness-circulatory[/tonedenplayer]






2014 1 6 Awareness Of Cardiovascular System- Sensing Life - Force

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-1-6-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 30 Set Your Intentions 2014

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-30-set-your-intentions[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 2 Awareness Of Autonomic Nervous System- Sensing Automatic

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-2-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 11 4 Awareness Of Brain- Sensing The Mind With Guest Speaker Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-11-4-awareness-of-brain[/tonedenplayer]






2013 10 8 Awareness Of Pelvis- Sensing Grace And Power

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-10-8-awareness-of-pelvis[/tonedenplayer]






2013 9 2 Awareness Of Nerves- Sensing Sensation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-9-2-awareness-of-nerves[/tonedenplayer]






2013 8 5 Awareness Of Wrists, Hands And Fingers- Sensing Meaning

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-8-5-awareness-of-wrists[/tonedenplayer]






2010 03 01 Nia White Belt Principal 3- ABC System: Existing in a World of Sound & Silence

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-03-01-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 7 1 Awareness Of Forearm Bones- Sensing Spiraling

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-7-1-awareness-of-forearm[/tonedenplayer]






2013 6 3 Awareness Of Elbows Joints- Sensing Precision With Guest Speaker Helen Terry

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-6-3-awareness-of-elbows[/tonedenplayer]






2013 5 6 Awareness Of Upper Arm Bones- Sensing Direction With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-5-6-awareness-of-upper[/tonedenplayer]






2013 4 1 Awareness Of Shoulder Joints- Sensing Freedom With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-4-1-awareness-of-shoulder[/tonedenplayer]






2013 3 4 Awareness Of Shoulder Girdle- Sensing Wings With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-3-4-awareness-of-shoulder[/tonedenplayer]






2013 2 4 Awareness Of Head- Sensing Up

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-2-4-awareness-of-head[/tonedenplayer]






2013 1 7 Awareness Of Chest- Sensing Expansion And Contradiction With Guest Speaker Chris Friedman

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-1-7-awareness-of-chest[/tonedenplayer]






2012 12 3 Awareness Of Spine- Sensing Creative Adaptability With Guest Speaker Rachael Resch

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-12-3-awareness-of-spine[/tonedenplayer]






2012 11 5 Awareness Of Hip Joints- Sensing Rolling With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-11-5-awareness-of-hip[/tonedenplayer]






2012 9 10 Awareness Of Thighbones- Sensing Mobile Support

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-9-10-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 9 10 Awareness Of Thighbones- Sensing Mobile Support

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-9-10-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 8 6 Awareness Of Knees- Sensing Opening And Closing

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-8-6-awareness-of-knees[/tonedenplayer]






2012 8 6 Awareness Of Knees- Sensing Opening And Closing

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-8-6-awareness-of-knees[/tonedenplayer]






2012 7 2 Awareness Of Shinbones- Sensing Verticle Precisions

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-7-2-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 7 2 Awareness Of Shinbones- Sensing Verticle Precisions

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-7-2-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 6 4 Awareness Of Ankle Joints- Sensing Dynamics Relationship

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-6-4-awareness-of-ankle[/tonedenplayer]






2012 6 4 Awareness Of Ankle Joints- Sensing Dynamics Relationship

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-6-4-awareness-of-ankle[/tonedenplayer]






2012 5 7 Awareness Of Feet- Sensing The Hands That Touch The Earth

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-5-7-awareness-of-feet[/tonedenplayer]






2012 5 7 Awareness Of Feet- Sensing The Hands That Touch The Earth

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-5-7-awareness-of-feet[/tonedenplayer]






2012 4 2 Awareness Of Joints- Sensing Mobility

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-4-2-awareness-of-joints[/tonedenplayer]






2012 4 2 Awareness Of Joints- Sensing Mobility

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-4-2-awareness-of-joints[/tonedenplayer]






2012 3 5 Awareness Of Bones- Sensing Alignment

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-3-5-awareness-of-bones[/tonedenplayer]






2012 3 5 Awareness Of Bones- Sensing Alignment

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-3-5-awareness-of-bones[/tonedenplayer]






2012 2 6 Awareness Of Ligaments And Tendons- Sensing Stability

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-2-6-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 2 6 Awareness Of Ligaments And Tendons- Sensing Stability

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-2-6-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 1 2 Awareness Of Muscles- Sensing Action And Relaxation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-1-2-awareness-of-muscles[/tonedenplayer]






2012 1 2 Awareness Of Muscles- Sensing Action And Relaxation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-1-2-awareness-of-muscles[/tonedenplayer]






2011 1 3 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 13- Teaching What You Sense

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2011-1-3-exploring-the-science[/tonedenplayer]






2011 1 3 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 13- Teaching What You Sense

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2011-1-3-exploring-the-science[/tonedenplayer]






2010 12 6 Living Into Your Greatness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-12-6-living-into-your[/tonedenplayer]






2010 12 6 Living Into Your Greatness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-12-6-living-into-your[/tonedenplayer]






2010 11 1 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 11- Creating A Sacred Livelihood

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-11-1-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2010 11 1 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 11- Creating A Sacred Livelihood

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-11-1-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2010 10 4 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 10- X - Ray Anatomy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-10-4-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2010 10 4 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 10- X - Ray Anatomy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-10-4-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2010 9 6 Developing A Kinship With The World

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-9-6-developing-a-kinship[/tonedenplayer]






2010 9 6 Developing A Kinship With The World

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-9-6-developing-a-kinship[/tonedenplayer]






2010 8 2 Sources Of Personal Discovery

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-8-2-sources-of-personal[/tonedenplayer]






2010 8 2 Sources Of Personal Discovery

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-8-2-sources-of-personal[/tonedenplayer]






2010 6 7 Sensing Your "Now" Body

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-6-7-sensing-your-now-body[/tonedenplayer]






2010 6 7 Sensing Your "Now" Body

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-6-7-sensing-your-now-body[/tonedenplayer]






2010 06 07 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-06-07-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 06 07 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-06-07-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 05 03 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-05-03-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 05 03 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-05-03-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-04-public-teleconference[/tonedenplayer]






2010 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-04-public-teleconference[/tonedenplayer]






2010 03 01 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-03-01-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 03 01 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-03-01-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-04-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 02 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-02-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-04-public[/tonedenplayer]






2009 07 12 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2009-07-12-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 02 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-02-public[/tonedenplayer]






2009 07 12 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2009-07-12-public[/tonedenplayer]






2014 12 29 The Art Of Choice And Manifesting- Stepping Into 2015

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-12-29-the-art-of-choice-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 04 Dedicated To You: The Students

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-04-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 04 Sharing The Joy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-04-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 02 Sharing The Joy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-02-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2009 07 12 Sharing The Joy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2009-07-12-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 11 3 Living As A Sensation Scientist- Sensing Oneness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-11-3-living-as-a-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 7 Awareness Of Central Nervous System- Sensing Transceiving W/ Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-7-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 7 Awareness Of Central Nervous System- Sensing Transceiving W/ Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-7-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 6 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Perception

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 10 6 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Perception

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-10-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 9 8 Awareness Of Endocrine System- Sensing Change

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-9-8-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 9 8 Awareness Of Endocrine System- Sensing Change

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-9-8-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 7 7 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Creation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-7-7-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 7 7 Awareness Of Reproductive System- Sensing Creation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-7-7-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 6 9 Awareness Of Excretory System- Sensing Release

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-6-9-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 6 9 Awareness Of Excretory System- Sensing Release

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-6-9-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 5 5 Awareness Of Respiratory System- Sensing Inspiration

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-5-5-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 5 5 Awareness Of Respiratory System- Sensing Inspiration

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-5-5-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 4 7 Awareness Of Digestive System- Sensing Nourishment With Guest Speaker Ada Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-4-7-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 4 7 Awareness Of Digestive System- Sensing Nourishment With Guest Speaker Ada Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-4-7-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 3 3 Awareness Of Lymphatic System- Sensing Vitality

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-3-3-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 3 3 Awareness Of Lymphatic System- Sensing Vitality

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-3-3-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 2 3 Awareness Circulatory System- Sensing Pulse

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-2-3-awareness[/tonedenplayer]






2014 2 3 Awareness Circulatory System- Sensing Pulse

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-2-3-awareness[/tonedenplayer]






2014 1 6 Awareness Of Cardiovascular System- Sensing Life - Force

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-1-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2014 1 6 Awareness Of Cardiovascular System- Sensing Life - Force

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2014-1-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 30 Set Your Intentions 2014

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-30-set-your[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 30 Set Your Intentions 2014

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-30-set-your[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 2 Awareness Of Autonomic Nervous System- Sensing Automatic

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-2-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 12 2 Awareness Of Autonomic Nervous System- Sensing Automatic

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-12-2-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 11 4 Awareness Of Brain- Sensing The Mind With Guest Speaker Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-11-4-awareness-of-brain-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 11 4 Awareness Of Brain- Sensing The Mind With Guest Speaker Gloria Gonzalez

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-11-4-awareness-of-brain-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 10 8 Awareness Of Pelvis- Sensing Grace And Power

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-10-8-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 10 8 Awareness Of Pelvis- Sensing Grace And Power

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-10-8-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 9 2 Awareness Of Nerves- Sensing Sensation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-9-2-awareness-of-nerves-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 9 2 Awareness Of Nerves- Sensing Sensation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-9-2-awareness-of-nerves-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 8 5 Awareness Of Wrists, Hands And Fingers- Sensing Meaning

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-8-5-awareness-of-wrists-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 8 5 Awareness Of Wrists, Hands And Fingers- Sensing Meaning

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-8-5-awareness-of-wrists-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 7 1 Awareness Of Forearm Bones- Sensing Spiraling

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-7-1-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 7 1 Awareness Of Forearm Bones- Sensing Spiraling

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-7-1-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 6 3 Awareness Of Elbows Joints- Sensing Precision With Guest Speaker Helen Terry

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-6-3-awareness-of-elbows-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 6 3 Awareness Of Elbows Joints- Sensing Precision With Guest Speaker Helen Terry

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-6-3-awareness-of-elbows-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 5 6 Awareness Of Upper Arm Bones- Sensing Direction With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-5-6-awareness-of-upper-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 5 6 Awareness Of Upper Arm Bones- Sensing Direction With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-5-6-awareness-of-upper-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 4 1 Awareness Of Shoulder Joints- Sensing Freedom With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-4-1-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 4 1 Awareness Of Shoulder Joints- Sensing Freedom With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-4-1-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 3 4 Awareness Of Shoulder Girdle- Sensing Wings With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-3-4-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 3 4 Awareness Of Shoulder Girdle- Sensing Wings With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-3-4-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2013 2 4 Awareness Of Head- Sensing Up

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-2-4-awareness-of-head-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 2 4 Awareness Of Head- Sensing Up

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-2-4-awareness-of-head-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 1 7 Awareness Of Chest- Sensing Expansion And Contradiction With Guest Speaker Chris Friedman

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-1-7-awareness-of-chest-1[/tonedenplayer]






2013 1 7 Awareness Of Chest- Sensing Expansion And Contradiction With Guest Speaker Chris Friedman

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2013-1-7-awareness-of-chest-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 12 3 Awareness Of Spine- Sensing Creative Adaptability With Guest Speaker Rachael Resch

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-12-3-awareness-of-spine-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 12 3 Awareness Of Spine- Sensing Creative Adaptability With Guest Speaker Rachael Resch

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-12-3-awareness-of-spine-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 11 5 Awareness Of Hip Joints- Sensing Rolling With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-11-5-awareness-of-hip-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 11 5 Awareness Of Hip Joints- Sensing Rolling With Guest Speaker Kelle Rae Oien

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-11-5-awareness-of-hip-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 9 10 Awareness Of Thighbones- Sensing Mobile Support

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-9-10-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 9 10 Awareness Of Thighbones- Sensing Mobile Support

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-9-10-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 8 6 Awareness Of Knees- Sensing Opening And Closing

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-8-6-awareness-of-knees-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 8 6 Awareness Of Knees- Sensing Opening And Closing

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-8-6-awareness-of-knees-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 7 2 Awareness Of Shinbones- Sensing Vertical Precisions

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-7-2-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 7 2 Awareness Of Shinbones- Sensing Vertical Precisions

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-7-2-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 6 4 Awareness Of Ankle Joints- Sensing Dynamics Relationship

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-6-4-awareness-of-ankle-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 6 4 Awareness Of Ankle Joints- Sensing Dynamics Relationship

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-6-4-awareness-of-ankle-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 5 7 Awareness Of Feet- Sensing The Hands That Touch The Earth

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-5-7-awareness-of-feet-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 5 7 Awareness Of Feet- Sensing The Hands That Touch The Earth

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-5-7-awareness-of-feet-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 4 2 Awareness Of Joints- Sensing Mobility

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-4-2-awareness-of-joints-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 4 2 Awareness Of Joints- Sensing Mobility

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-4-2-awareness-of-joints-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 3 5 Awareness Of Bones- Sensing Alignment

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-3-5-awareness-of-bones-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 3 5 Awareness Of Bones- Sensing Alignment

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-3-5-awareness-of-bones-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 2 6 Awareness Of Ligaments And Tendons- Sensing Stability

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-2-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 2 6 Awareness Of Ligaments And Tendons- Sensing Stability

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-2-6-awareness-of-1[/tonedenplayer]






2012 1 2 Awareness Of Muscles- Sensing Action And Relaxation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-1-2-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2012 1 2 Awareness Of Muscles- Sensing Action And Relaxation

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2012-1-2-awareness-of[/tonedenplayer]






2011 1 3 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 13- Teaching What You Sense

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2011-1-3-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2011 1 3 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 13- Teaching What You Sense

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2011-1-3-exploring-the[/tonedenplayer]






2010 12 6 Living Into Your Greatness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-12-6-living-into-your-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 12 6 Living Into Your Greatness

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-12-6-living-into-your-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 11 1 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 11- Creating A Sacred Livelihood

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-11-1-exploring-the-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 11 1 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 11- Creating A Sacred Livelihood

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-11-1-exploring-the-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 10 4 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 10- X - Ray Anatomy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-10-4-exploring-the-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 10 4 Exploring The Science Of Nia White Belt Principle 10- X - Ray Anatomy

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-10-4-exploring-the-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 9 6 Developing A Kinship With The World

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-9-6-developing-a[/tonedenplayer]






2010 9 6 Developing A Kinship With The World

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-9-6-developing-a[/tonedenplayer]






2010 8 2 Sources Of Personal Discovery

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-8-2-sources-of-personal-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 8 2 Sources Of Personal Discovery

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-8-2-sources-of-personal-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 6 7 Sensing Your "Now" Body

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-6-7-sensing-your-now[/tonedenplayer]






2010 6 7 Sensing Your "Now" Body

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-6-7-sensing-your-now[/tonedenplayer]






2010 06 07 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-06-07-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 06 07 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-06-07-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 05 03 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-05-03-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 05 03 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-05-03-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-04-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-04-public[/tonedenplayer]






2010 03 01 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-03-01-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 03 01 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-03-01-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-04-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 04 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-04-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 02 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-02-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2010 01 02 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2010-01-02-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2009 07 12 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2009-07-12-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






2009 07 12 Public Teleconference

[tonedenplayer skin="light" vsualizertype="waves"]https://soundcloud.com/debbierosas/2009-07-12-public-1[/tonedenplayer]






Crossing the Street

There is something dangerous about traveling outside of your country, especially when it comes to crossing the street. On numerous occasions I have almost been hit by a car or bicycle crossing the street in places where cars drive on the opposite side and have the right of way as do bicyclists. Being dyslexic, it is normal for me to get my left and right sides mixed up. This means when I travel I have to be on extra high alert. I do have a few tricks. When I come to the curb I count to ten, look left and right and right and then left, and then I verbalize aloud from what direction the cars are coming. I continue to talk aloud until I get across the street. I guess talking aloud makes one look off. Recently, in Australia I had someone stop and ask me if I was lost and asked was there someone they could call for me! I love humanity and people who care.






The Voices of Mothering Your Mother Within

When I was pregnant with my first child Jenny, I was given a book called Mother’s Day is Over by Shirley Rogers Radl. This book became the one source I could turn to and count on. It mirrored the reality I was about to live. It was the only book I read that didn’t sugarcoat motherhood. It was the one source that helped me authentically prepare for the good, bad and ugly of motherhood.  I believe the truth of this book on one level was shocking, but it also made me feel connected to other mothers-to-be like me. The ones I perceived were afraid, confused, and wanting the whole truth and nothing but the truth. We didn’t want the fantasy that many of the other books shared. These books often left me feeling inadequate. They said I was going to have a wonderful and joyous experience as a mother. Really?
 
I was feeling devastated, scared, panicked, imprisoned and so alone. While I loved being pregnant, carrying life, birthing, what came after scared me to death. I have since learned one of the most important credos a woman carrying a child and a mother can follow: mother the mother within. This mothering begins by being honest with your self, by getting to know yourself, and by developing skills to mother. I believe if you don’t know what you’re mothering you can’t nurture it. I had to learn to mother myself to become a good mother. I had to learn to love who I was by forgiving myself, by being patient, and by teaching myself to grow up to be a good mother. Healer, heal thyself. Mother, mother thyself!
 
In January of 1993 I began to rewrite some pregnancy material I had written a few years earlier. I used this information as educational material for pregnant women in my movement classes. During the process of rewriting I began to get messages from my inner voices telling me I should write about mothering and motherhood, and about my experiences with abortions, births and relationships, and to what I regard as daily deaths. It seemed odd to me to be writing about motherhood. My girls were grown up. Jennifer was twenty-two, living in Japan and Jessica, twenty, lived on her own in Portland, working and finishing her GED. It was a time in my life when motherhood was the last thing on my mind.
 
In March of that year, I became very ill with pneumonia and was in bed for several weeks.  Over my nine-week period of healing, I thought a lot about my work, my relationship, dancing, writing, and painting - all aspects of my life. The voices inside my head didn’t stop. Over and over again, messages came, pushing me to write about motherhood. Besides the voices in my head it became clear to me in my dreams and meditations that my personal life and relationship with husband number two was over. My voices continued to tell me, “Debbie, your philosophy and approach to life will be of great value to mothers”. Value? I’m getting divorced for the second time. What do I have to offer?
 
I thought about it for days and decided being a woman and a mother, and a leader who teaches people how to get in the body and be healthy might be enough. I could integrate my knowledge of the body, the universe, Chi, energy and the communication I know exists between the mind, body, emotions and spirit. It worked for me, so maybe it could work for others, for mothers looking for answers.
 
I began to explore my dreams and visions of motherhood and childbirth as it could have been for me, and as it could be for all women. Along the way I was taken on a journey where I developed new ways of thinking about abortion, motherhood, birth and death. I now have a new reality, a new paradigm for mothering and birth, and a new archetype of motherhood. I didn’t come to this knowledge and place overnight. It happened slowly as I allowed what I believed to be true and real to slowly unfold within and through me. I took the time to assimilate my feelings and thoughts, arriving to the motherhood truth I could stand for and confidently share.
 
While there were other logical, emotionally rewarding and personal healing reasons for me to write about motherhood one thing was clear: the inner voice inside me, in you, in us all is something to listen to. I trust in my inner voice. It has guided me on an extraordinary journey of learning to mother my mother within, and to mother my children.
 
The process of writing, of recounting so many memories has allowed me to relive the joys, laughter, fears and also some very deep painful experiences as a mother. These memories gave rise to the past and illuminated many details of my experiences, that now looking back, if I had the right guidance, some other tools, another model, maybe I could have changed their outcome. I think so.






Madame Debbie

I pride myself on the fact that I take time to look good as much as I pride myself on feeling good, which is a priority in my life. So much so that movement and living healthy is my business. According to my mom, dressing beautifully and presenting something attractive and inspiring to look at is also my business. 

I grew up being told I had a responsibility to make anything better. To make things better included what I said, my body language, facial expressions, thoughts, feelings, and my overall look. Over my lifetime this lesson has impacted the decisions about what I wear. 

This morning at my local hangout, Starbucks, I was surprised! As I stood dressed in a favorite blue and white wide striped skirt and off the shoulder matching top, the woman next to me commented on how I always look so beautiful and put together. She then began to tell me how she fantasizes about what I do; working as a madame! We laughed and I said, “No such thing, I’m a brain surgeon!” 

She left with a better story than the one she came in with. I left things better!






Believing in Magic

I love snow more than most people. Snow reminds me of what is sacred in life, and in the magic of heaven. Yes, I’m a romantic and a believer in magic. I actually believe and have seen in my dreams what collaborates what I think: I was sent in this body to Earth from a snow planet. In my dream, the only color I see is red, which I believe is the sight of being infused with life force blood as I lay on a slab of ice surrounded in an igloo-like cave by hundreds of loving ice-people. I recognize I am preparing to be sent to Earth. This is why every time I see snow it feels like home and I am filled with the sensation of being a spiritual being. Snow brings me back to the dream, to the magic, and to my heart. Dreaming is good. Magic is real. Believing is a choice.

I will always be a believer in the magic.






January Is My Month

January is my month. I say this because I was born January 23. I’ve had a very interesting year thinking I was 65 all year long, and about to turn 66. Not true! I am turning 67, which surprised me as I was all excited to turn 66, which is an angel number carrying the resonance of unconditional love, healing, faith and trust in the Divine. It carries the message from my angels to put my faith and trust in the benevolence of the Universe as my daily needs are continually met. Did I miss out on receiving the gifts of being 66? I hope not.

As I look back into last year and my relationship “with” faith and trust and unconditional love, I clearly see how I was tested. I see how my relationship with the divine grew and how I have actually relaxed more deeply into my life experiences, influencing my choices and decisions. So here I am, sitting in my 66 about to turn 67, and choosing to live life connected to the focus I have created for 2018: “The Year of the Pull” dedicated to living life in the body connected to the sensation of one of the seven Chakras pulling, and calling me to pay attention to a specific voice. I shall listen to my chakras speak and to the voice of 67, which is a blend of the personalities of number 6 and number 7, resonating and imprinting the voice of positive life progress, greater spiritual awakening, and advancement in all areas of life. At 67 I am being asked to create a stronger connection with my angelic and spiritual realms that opens the doorway to me deepening my relationship with the Divine and angelic guidance. I shall prepare myself over these next few days to ready myself for 67!






Going with the Flow

Adaptable. This is who I want to be. This is what I train for. It is the only way to navigate through life and sustain my energy and a healthy emotional, mental, physical and spiritual body. I teach this stuff. I know how the one thing you can count on is “change.” Yesterday I resisted change for about five minutes. On the airplane, excited to go visit my youngest daughter Jessica and have mommy and daughter time I barely sat my butt down on the seat when we were instructed to deplane. Something was wrong with the nose of the plane. The moment they said it was going to be at least two hours before they knew if they could fix it I knew the plane was not taking off. Once off the plane agitation, anger, frustration set in. Then, about five minutes later my saving grace voice “adapt” kicked in. A few phone calls later, a ride back to the hotel, I found myself sitting by a fire in a beautiful room surrounded by art.

I never know what the outcome of a change will be. What I do know is that the way I navigate through change is what determines how I feel in the moment and later, and I feel good and rested this morning as I leave Santa Fe for mommy and daughter time!






Magic Is All Around Us

“And above all, watch with glittering eyes the whole world around you because the greatest secrets are always hidden in the most unlikely places. Those who don't believe in magic will never find it.” 

—Roald Dahl, British Novelist

I believe in magic because I can, I want to, and we’re all about to see magic right in front of our eyes. Wake up early on January 31 and on the West Coast you have a great chance of looking up into the sky and seeing the moon larger and brighter; an Eclipse. What you will see is magic, part illusion, science, and a collision of multiple lunar events, a lot of things happening at once to entertain humanity. I believe it’s the Universes way of celestially speaking to us, calling us to get out of our heads and connected to the magic that surrounds us, and that lives inside us. As a child I loved magic. We had a magic store I often frequented. My favorite tricks were the ones that shocked my family, like the disappearing ink I spilled on my mom’s new bedspread. My laughter was in direct contrast to her horror until the blue started to fade and she realized I had once again played a magic trick on her.

Eclipses are some the Universes’ great magic tricks that occur when the slight of hand moves the Earth to pass between the sun and moon, blocking the sunlight from reaching the moon. As I see it, the Universe holds all the cards, moving the moon closer to Earth so it appears brighter and larger than normal is only one of its trick. I would love to ask the Universe, “Why is it the last time you pulled this rabbit out of the hat trick was 35, or as some believe, 150 years ago? I imagine it takes this long to perfect the trick because the moon’s orbit around Earth is elliptical and its distance from Earth is not fixed, and on average it fluctuates between 225,600 miles and 252,100 miles. That’s a lot of trial and error in the process of perfecting the magic trick of the Blue Moon Lunar eclipse. 

Don’t miss it. Get up early on January 31 and get a front row seat to the best magic show on earth and look up.






The Voice of Change

If I doubted the world is changing for the better, today I witnessed how the world is changing. Riding in my car listening to the radio, the announcer was describing the women’s march today. He eloquently spoke of women wearing pink “pussy” hats! I laughed with joy, witnessing the moment of linguistic transformation in humanity. The word “pussy” is now a work we can say on the radio. Will they use it on TV? I hope so.

Several years ago I read a book called “Proust was a Squid” by Marianne Wolf. In it, she described how we actually create the brain and how the brain evolved as we learned to read. This got me thinking about how the use of language reflects changes in society and changes in the brain.

Go to Google and you read “Pussy is a slang noun possibly derives from the Norse word for “pouch,” or by analogy with the small, warm, furry animal. Of course, “pussy” has metaphorical meanings too. A cowardly man is called a “pussy.” This use of "pussy" is obviously misogynistic, as it figuratively connects the vulva with weakness. One point only, and if you dig deeper into the history of the word “pussy” you’ll find a moment in time when the word “pussy” was thrust forward into our minds. One such moment when was President Trump announced he could grab a woman’s “pussy”. Another was when during the first Women’s March women wore hats coined, “pink pussy hats”. I wore one and only thought of it as my feminine spirit hat! Who knew?

If you want to find out more about the history of the word “pussy” check out the article “Where Does the Word Pussy Come From and Should Feminists Really Use It” article. It’s excellent. You’ll find it at  https://www.glamour.com/story/origin-of-the-word-pussy . And if you want a modern spin and voice about “pussy” check out the book “Pussy” by Regena Thomasseur, founder of Mama Gena’s School of the Womanly Arts.
As for now, I hope the word “pussy” remains a choice when speaking about cats and pussy willow trees. On the other hand, just maybe using freely using the word “pussy” and shifting it from slang to a word that stands for a significant moment in our time when women’s voices, bodies, minds, hearts, souls and spirit became elevated to the ground of sacred wisdom, grace, power, beauty and equality is cool with me.






A New End

Last night I spent time celebrating an end, the end of sixty-six, as today I turned sixty-seven. This is my day January 23, my birthday, and the day I thank my mom and dad for making me, leading me, and caring for me, influencing me to be who I am. It’s a big job raising people and they did a good job with me.

My husband’s short documentary recently received Best Short Documentary and Best Editing at the Milan Film festival. You can watch it on www.Stuart.FM. The title of his movie “A New End” had new meaning to me today when I was watching Good Morning America. A short news clip announced that Neil Diamond had recently been diagnosed with Parkinson’s and would not finish his tour. He was retiring from the business he has loved for over fifty years, playing and writing music. He is writing a new end of the story of his life.

I’d like to say I am cool with endings. That’s not always true. I often find I need time to get over the feelings of loss, grief, sadness, anger and rage before I can slip into “It’s all perfect." Neil Diamond, the man, recently married in 2012, a traveling man, and the Forever In Blue Jeans man whose album I jumped rope to every day for six months is on a new path and I feel sad. I feel a loss. I feel grief at the end and am seeking to find joy today in the new end he is now a part of. The way I’ll do this is to cease the moment. Enjoy the time I have today to live my life in a healthy body, as none of us ever knows when a new end is around the corner.






How To Set Up The Perfect V-Day

While the definition of perfect has several objective meanings, the word "perfect" means something different for everyone. 

Perfect: (adj) Having all the required or desirable elements, qualities, or characteristics; as good as it is possible to be.
Perfect: (verb) to make (something) completely free from faults or defects, or as close to such a condition as possible.
Perfect: (noun) the perfect tense.
Perfect: (my definition) crafting a body and life that turns you on and that deeply pleases you.

I’m not sure if there is a perfect Valentine’s Day. What I do know is “perfect is something I want to create each and every day” and the way I do this is to understand that as far as I know, all I have is the moment to create a magical life. One moment of magic connected to another and I have the perfect day.

I define perfect as living the moment and my full throttle, no holding back, and at the end of each day, imagining the curtains closing on the stage of the day, of my life, I receive a standing ovation for the universe for living my life perfectly. Here are a few of my living the perfect day tips. Use them to set up the perfect Valentine’s Day and remember to always start creating the perfect day by giving to you and your body!

1. Upon waking, speak to your body and life saying, “Happy Valentine’s Day body and life, I love you!”
2. Hang out in bed and seduce your body, mind, emotions, and spirit with breath, don’t jump out of bed. Take a few minutes to “smell the moment” inhaling, in and out through your nose, breathing in the universe's light and love into all 75 trillion cells of your body.
3. Once your up and out of bed activate the flow of light and love energy throughout your whole body by moving the body’s main thirteen joints. Follow Nia’s 13 Joint Map to get your life-force flowing.
4. Dress to feel beautiful, sensual, powerful and confident and step outside your box. Inspire yourself and the world.
5. Share the gift of love by telling everyone you meet today, “Happy Valentine’s Day”.
6. Call someone you haven’t talked to in a long time and connect.
7. Give your body a dance/workout break. Link to NiaSounds and listen to XXX, and dance your heart out by LINKING to NiaTV.fit and click on the Happy Valentine and receive XXX workout.
8. Take your body and heart out to a special place you love, and get together with someone, with people you love, admire, and enjoy spending time with.
9. End your day by writing in a journal 10 things you love about your body and life.
10. Take a sensual, warm bath, surrounded by candles. Dry your body off slowly and enjoy the sensation of loving touch, and when you are ready to go to sleep, slip under the covers and say, “Goodnight body, I love you!” 

During my perfect day, I would incorporate my favorite things that help me love my whole self

• LIP GLOSS. I love kissing and healthy lips are key to increased pleasure. I keep my lips moisturized by using Pat Mcgrath's Lab Lip Fetish Lip Balm. Besides the product, it’s the attention to detail I love, as beauty is one of the four pillars of Nia, and Pat Mcgrath's beauty line is all about beauty, power and grace. Besides that, she loves stilettos. 
• BACCARAT Marti CRYSTAL Glass. I love glasses. Not the kind I use to read, but the kind that can turn any moment of drinking liquid into something special. Water, wine, a Cosmo, you’ll find me with the right glass, as to me, the right glass changes the flavor, and I’m all great taste and about creating the very best experiences in my life. 
• Wolford Thigh Highs. I always say, “It’s what’s underneath that counts, and I stand by word and walk my talk. Under you’ll find me wearing my favorite nylons, black sheer and opaque and often with seams. Not only do these nylons look great, they make me feel great and sexy! I for one love feeling turned on twenty-four seven by my life choices.






In the Wake of Tragedy

Valentine’s Day is a day dedicated to remembering and celebrating love. At least it is supposed to be. Yesterday in Florida the fabric of this special day was torn apart, ripping at the hearts of a community and
destroying families who lost loved ones and leaving others in limbo as they pray for their loved ones still in the hospital. What we witnessed was an act of sheer violence. Was it evil? I say “no”. It was “pain”. The pain of a human being sending signals, and in their own way, was reaching out. His pain was ignored. The result of ignoring the signs of mental and emotional trauma was what we saw yesterday in the senseless killing of lives. Anger and anguish unleashed in a very wrong way.

As someone who works with people of all ages, teaching about the body, mind, emotions and spirit I have been privileged to witness the unleashing and misguided, misdirected mental and emotional pain. It is never good and the people in the path of this misguided pain always suffer. When a gun is put in someone’s hands, the result is more than pain it is death and permanent physical destruction.

I do not have the answer, but what I do have is enough knowledge to know, collectively, we as a society of human beings must say, “Enough”. We must do something now or this kind of violence will become something we were to get used to.

Violence is learned. When a body and the person in the body must survive, the part of the brain shuts down that talks to the emotions, giving the person choices. If we cease to have choices and only react versus consciously act we will become monsters. I believe society is creating monsters. We are doing this through the images, words, actions, stories, movies, and messages used to sell products. When did it become okay for a perfume company like “Dior” to promote physical violence in relationship to fighting for love? Something’s wrong and we need to fix it. Why is it okay and now normal for soap opera stories to include rape and murder? How is it physical violence seems to normal in almost every aspect of our lives from Church, to State and School? Something’s wrong.

I call on us all to look deep into our hearts and to say something; do something; take a stand or the future of humanity may fall.






The Importance of Collaboration

I love collaboration; taking what I know and do, working with people who know there is always more to learn, and always a way to make “what is” better. Last weekend in San Rafael, California, trainer Kelle Rae Oien and I got to create something new and better. Our egos were thrown aside, giving way to the magic of divine intervention and collaborative creativity to emerge.

It’s easy for me to throw my ego aside. I understand the power in dancing with the divine, and in listening and responding to the “pull” of my body’s voice saying “do this, do that." Listening to my body’s voice is how the gates of my mind, body, heart, and soul open me up to more knowledge and collaborative creativity, which is creativity that comes from having a map and using it to build upon and from being dedicated an outcome not only for my satisfaction but for the higher good of all.

There are many Nia maps I use to ground collaborative creativity. Any map I use must achieve the overall job I have committed my life and work to helping people move and feel better. In the Language of Nia, the 52 Moves are spoken through the base, core and upper extremities of the body. They are the one map to learning more and making “what is” new and better, resulting in moving and feeling better. Teaching the 52 Moves training gives me great joy, watching students and teachers slow down and improve their movement skill. When I see light bulbs of knowledge and the self-healing, greater comfort, and sustainable conditioning from learning more about how to master the Nia moves, I feel deeply satisfied.

I come away from this weekend’s 52 Moves Training more than satisfied. I feel inspired by the work Kelle and I did by coming together to make things better. We determined what is best to bring in the hands-on training, and what is best to use as content on NiaTV in the Post-Training 52 Moves Teacher Tutorial. Now all I have to do is “do” the doing to support teachers who wish to teach this amazing class as a craft-technique class and/or as the MOVEIT higher intensity class workout. I am confident that with NiaTV, and the opportunity to provide better instruction and support this work will make learning and teaching Nia better and better, and as I said, I am dedicated to better!






Creating the Nia Routine “Flow”

Things have changed when it comes to creating Nia routines, but one thing has not: the somatic delivery of a pleasure-based workout that works! 

Over this past weekend, we have been taping the upcoming Nia Routine “Flow.” I had the privilege to work with the lead choreographer, Nia Trainer Kelle Rae Oien from Sante Fe, New Mexico. What a joy to work with her and to collaborate to create this body of work to be shared not only with the current Nia community, with the general public at large. 

Working together is a process of giving and receiving. It requires looking at the end goal, the bigger picture, which means, “There is more to consider than you the choreographer and your likes and dislikes." Understanding this comes from letting go of ego and from stepping into the process of creating choreography with a “martial attitude”. Kelle did this masterfully, making the process of collaboration easy, enjoyable, fun, and efficient. We both learned a lot.

With today’s technology, it is so much easier to collaborate. I get to see what’s being created and give feedback in a timely fashion and along the way. This saves time and ensures we can create better and better material. 

Our intent with “Flow” was to create choreography by “scaffolding." This was achieved by Kelle sending me her basic Katas and by working with me to deconstruct the Kata to eventually build it up to make sure the dancer engages from the inside out, which is what the choreographer naturally does given the amount time, repetitions and embodiment of the work. In a nutshell, when you have the time to create it, you get it! This does not mean the translation of the work always works, which is why I am committed to helping the choreography team build somatic routines by taking people from less into more and from small into big using the scaffolding process, and using simpler patterns and more repetition, with “add-on” content to expand upon the basics.

When taping “Flow,” Kelle and I felt proud of the work we did together to deliver an excellent body of work, one we believe you will all grow with and benefit from as Nia Teachers and dancers.

High points for me were watching the intentional smaller dancing team, her back up: Kate Latimer, Jamie Klein and Gabrielle McGhee from her Studio Nia Sante Fe, and Sarah Caveney from Move Me Studio in San Rafael, California. Having practiced, you’ll see a deeper quality of relaxation in all the dancers, which is what Stuart and I wanted on film. 

All of the changes we are making with Nia routines are driven by the desire to improve the product and deliver a better digital experience through Nia TV for the general public and Nia teachers. 

Thank you Kelle, dancers, and everyone on the film crew that made this experience so enjoyable!






February's Gift

Theologist John O’ Donohue wrote, “Beyond the veils of language and the voice of activity, the most profound events of our lives take place in these fleeting moments where something else shine through, something that can never be fixed in language, something given to us quietly as the gift of your next breath.” I call this something else “friendship”. I believe it takes love to be best friends.

One of the truly special Valentine’s Day moments I've experienced did not include the ordinary gift of a dozen long-stemmed red roses, a card, jewelry or perfume. It came with something much more meaningful to me: time together, nothing planned and everything possible, hanging out together as best friends. Holding hands and connecting as two spirits embodied in flesh.

When working with your spouse, it is easy to get caught up in the daily to-dos and lose sight of what’s most important in keeping my relationship healthy: being together, not as business partners or lovers, but as friends. 

My partner Stuart and I were friends first before we became what seems is sold as the golden ticket into a happy and fulfilled life: becoming lovers. While I love the lover moments, it is the time spent as friends I cherish the most.

I often find myself questioning the deep friendship we have by what the media seems to be obsessed with telling me about and defining as the ultimate relationship: one filled with sex where being lovers is the most important thing. Maybe it’s because I’m 67 and the sex and lover relationship has shifted into something different for me, something I actually find more meaningful, fulfilling, sustainable, and deeply satisfying to all of my seven chakras, not just my sexual center! Or maybe it’s that I have reached Nirvana and I’m at the top of the mountain where I can see the all that is? No matter what, for me, there’s no better Valentine’s Day gift that time to be with my best friend. Time to remember how much we like and respect each other and how we are inspired and motivated by each other to be better, more loving people, towards all people. Lover’s of humanity is who we are.






Godly Love

Learn to trust yourself by learning to trust your body.  Learn to trust the influences coming from holding the presence of God within you.

We are in partnership with the spirit of God.  This energy exchange between wo-mankind and God is the most powerful energy on earth. 

Let us come together to deliberately create a species that is devoted entirely to its evolvement into one with our God.

God's intention is that great numbers of creatures are able to share enjoyment and continuously enhance the enlightenment of all.

Let us point ourselves to the light, the doorway that lies within each of our hearts.  The doorway to experience God through our physical, mental and spiritual energies.

To truly trust God we must trust ourselves.  This includes building trust in our bodies.

Let us dance and connect with the one maker behind every species, the one who has manifested all that is.

As we move in harmony we experience our energy...matter...spirit...form...God's love...truth.

In motion, let us translate our wholeness into a beautiful biological dance expression that is in union with God.

Let us tap into the love-centered motivational frequencies that can heal our hearts, minds and awaken our spirits to creating the highest good for all.

As we dance, let us move and relax into the rich interconnectivity of the love God.

As we attune to our inner selves and connect with God, we discover a world of beauty and of wonder beyond all that we have known, truly creating heaven on earth. 

The seed of peace is within us all.  It is the holiest of spirit that is cultivated by our willingness to care for our bodies in loving and conscious ways. 

Moving our bodies in loving and gentle ways remind us to cultivate care for all life and for one another.

Let us create harmony in our bodies, minds and spirits, so that we may come together to know the God within.

Our hearts and the heart of God are one.  Our hearts and the heart of the earth are one.  Our hearts and all mankind's hearts are one.  May they beat to the beat of love.

Miracles are constantly occuring around us.  As we heighten our awareness and senses we can perceive and notice the extraordinariness in the ordinary.  We can feel the joys and the astonishing beauty in and around us.

It is only a question of loving one's self enough.  As we love ourselves, we love God.

It is impossible to have low self esteem when we perform movement in a sacred and loving way.

There is a way to perceive and experience spirituality through the body.  Be awake.  Listen, feel, see, think and perceive with the body of God.  Mindful at all times.  It is a matter of being spiritual rather than doing.

Let each step that you take reflect a purposeful and conscious spiritual approach to your life and living.






The Business of Your Body and Life

I’m writing a book called, CEO-The Art of Communication, Energy and Orgasm. My message is simple: know what to say, know what energy to put behind what you do and say, and know the right time to release information. From my experience in the martial arts, in health and business, some very practical business tools can help you manage the business of your body and life, and we’re all in the business of our body and life.

1.	Communication: A healthy CEO is interactive, and communicates by listening to the physical body, by using the thinking, gut, and intuitive mind. They use emotions to gather information and their illuminated higher-self and spirit as their partners. They look, listen, and feel to gain awareness, insight and clarity before they taking action. When they do take action, they do so consciously and without hesitation. They act out of love and compassion, using the energy of desire to fuel visions and dreams. They live fearlessly in integrity and truth.
2.	Energy: A powerful CEO uses life force as fuel. They go to the source, the heart to nourish their body, mind, emotions, and spirit. They cultivate, harmonize, blend, activate, and motivate people and their business using life force and by listening to the voices of the chakras. They co-create using masculine and feminine energies. They recognize the power that comes from taking time to energetically blend. They take time to develop connections so power is at least doubled.
3.	Orgasm: A dynamic CEO knows when to hold back, and when to let it go. They know the art of foreplay and the art of seduction that draws people and things in and to them. They understand timing and are sensitive to when to use a soft Yin touch, and when to use a harder Yang firm approach. They are masters of language, using just the right word to get what they want. They guide and direct with passion and love. They understand the power in following through to completion. 

Success business leaders:

•They are as much a spiritual guide as they are a coach and a boss. 
•They guide themselves using the same rules, tools, compassion and integrity as they guide others. 
•They co-create success using the very best resources: people and creativity.
•They recognize their place as part of the whole, and as a center. A powerful leader chooses to lead and at times lets others lead. 
•They are invested in the success of everyone, and are not afraid to ask for excellence and provide the tools needed to create excellence. 
•They have their feet firmly planted and rooted no matter where they are. 
•They are flexible in body and mind, and agile in heart and spirit. 
•They understand how important it is to achieve balance in all aspects of life, personally and professionally. 
•They positively make decisions through their mind and senses. 
•They think using their gut, instincts, and rational mind. 
•They are the spiritual guide as much as they are the coach and boss. 
•They guide themselves with the same compassion and integrity as use to guide others.
•They co-create success using the best resources: people and creativity.
•They blend the science, craft and art of doing business, leading with a visionary mind, and by respecting the laws of the universe that govern everything great. 
•They function as a Samurai of their life, and reflect health, vitality, beauty, wellness and power in the way they live life and work.
•Who they are, what they believe in, and what they think is clearly reflected in their work and life.






How To Show Love to Yourself

Here’s how to show love to your body.

The most powerful way to live in a body is to expect and choose love. 



The art of living and loving your body and life is to know the role and game you play. This is the art of aging.



Body Wisdom: The art of listening and responding. Move and listen to the voices of the body. 

Healthy movement incorporates all parts: the body, mind, emotions and spirit. Healthy movement involves the senses to heal, condition, improve behavior, build self-confidence, improve self-esteem, and make you feel connected to your body and life. It expands our perspective of what it means to feel vital, happy, energetically balanced, stimulated and in harmony with everything. We become aware of healthy movement by sensing comfort and pleasure in our bodies.

Unhealthy movement fosters unhealthy physical actions and behavior. It triggers pain and discomfort, a loss in self-confidence and self-esteem, and a loss of control and potential. It leaves one feeling tired, agitated, separate, alone, confused, energetically depleted, out of balance, and stuck between extreme emotional highs and lows. We become aware of unhealthy movement by sensing pain or an absence of comfort and pleasure in our body.

Breath
Breath is life. Medically, it is termed as one of our vital functions, along with heartbeat.
 
• Pay attention to your breathing habits throughout the day
• Smell life
• Lengthen your exhale
• Make sounds to integrate your body and breath

The Voice of Breath
I am the voice of breath, the voice of all humankind, spoken as the language of life. I connect you to the life-force energy you know as chi, ki, prana and kundalini. The ultimate alchemist, my skills include the ability to create chemical magic—to make changes that nurture the homeostasis your body relies on—the perfect balance. I mediate the needs of your body through a complex feedback system between your body and your brain. A tool for health and well-being, you receive me by smelling the moment. Use me wisely and I will nourish your cells, providing you with the energy you need to keep on going...and going...and going. 

Signs of Unhealthy Breath

• Low energy
• Extreme emotional ups and downs
• Lack of concentration and inability to think clearly
• Poor skin
• Insomnia
• Stomach problems
• High-stress levels
• Frequent colds and respiratory problems
• Lack of incentive, drive and/or enthusiasm
• Lack of physical, mental, emotional and spiritual stamina
• Sluggish energy
• A feeling of being depressed

Signs of Healthy Breath

• Calm, steady, vibrant energy levels
• Dynamic emotional body with the ability to quickly return to center
• Ability to concentrate and think clearly
• Clear, bright complexion and skin
• Good sleep patterns
• Good digestion
• Managing stress well
• Feeling of excitement about life
• Physical, mental, emotional and spiritual stamina
• Dynamic and adaptable energy
• Feeling of hopefulness and passion for life

Connective Tissue
A network for communication and transport.

Healthy connective tissue
When moving at any speed, healthy connective tissue is sensed as being elastic with the ability to dynamically respond to any directional pull. It is sensed as having the optimum force and energy needed to stimulate strength, flexibility, mobility, agility and stability in the body.

Unhealthy connective tissue 
Over 200 disorders affect connective tissue. Unhealthy connective tissue can be sensed as ongoing muscle and joint pain, inflammation of the joints and tissues, swollen hands and puffy fingers, fatigue, stiffness, loose and fragile skin, and weakness in the blood vessels.

Tips:
Drink plenty of water and keep your body warm.
Combine various ranges of motion into your movements.
Practice the Nia 5 Stages for 5 minutes each day (visit go.nianow.com/5-stages-vid to watch an example)
Integrate the Five Sensations of Fitness into your everyday life (flexibility, agility, mobility, strength and stability) 

Eyes
Exercise your eye muscles: Look, relax, blink. Relate these words to sight, as in left, right, down, up, soften, perceive, close, and open.

I am your connection to symbol, color, texture, and shape. I am the window into your soul and a vast resource for seeing and perceiving life as art. 

The Voice of Sight
I am the voice of sight, one of your body’s five senses considered by many to be the most complex. Through me, you are connected to the windows of the soul and to non-verbal communication. I am designed to receive and process light, rays and beams of light, and bounce off objects, giving you information about color, shape and texture. 

Taste
1. Taste from beginner’s mind, smelling and chewing everything as if it was for the first time.
2. Turn your whole body into a tasting tongue, imagining all parts of you as a tongue, from your skin to your fingers to your toes.
3. Dance with taste, using your tongue and the food you eat as your dance partners.
4. Keep your taste buds healthy and fit by cleaning your tongue using a tongue brush or scraper.
5. Keep your nose and tongue healthy and fit by smelling to breathe; by sticking your tongue out, wiggling, wagging, and flicking it; and by more consciously involving your tongue and nose when you eat.

Speak
Liberate your pleasure by vigorously laughing out loud for 60 seconds, spending 15 seconds lying on your belly, lying face up, sitting and standing.

Listen
As Don Campbell says in The Mozart Effect, “In an instant music can uplift our soul. It awakens within us the spirit of prayer, compassion, and love. It clears our minds and has been known to make us smarter. Music can dance and sing our blues away. It conjures up memories of lost lovers or deceased friends. It lets the child in us play, the monk in us pray, the cowgirl in us line dance, the hero in us surmount all obstacles. It helps the stroke patient find language and expression.”



Practice: releasing your jaw, twisting your tongue and yawning. Notice how these movements affect the ear, nose and throat while keeping the surrounding muscles agile, open and healthy.






Women's History Month

I love turning women on to the power of their body, mind, emotions, and spirit. So much so, I’ve dedicated my life to helping women turn-on and tune-in to their voices. These days, women’s voices seem to be raging, howling, kicking and screaming “enough”. This is a good thing. It’s her time. It’s our time. There’s no more time. 

My name is Debbie Rosas. I am a woman, and celebrating women is something I am passionate about. National Women’s History Month gives me a platform for speaking up for what I believe and what feel passionate about: the Feminine Spirit, the body, life and sacred truth!

In 1990, while visiting my parents, I had the urge to do something I hadn’t done in a long time: draw. Pen to paper, the image of a window appeared. In it, a woman floated in the blue sky holding coiled snakes in each hand. I named her The Goddess - Protector of Home. I had never said or even written the word goddess until that day. I had no knowledge of the goddess, or for that matter, the history of the goddess. In celebration of National Women’s History Month, I celebrate her. To me, this is her month and this is her moment in time to be recognized and honored.

Upon returning home from my parent’s home, the word goddess seemed to be popping up everywhere. One pivotal sighting was an advertisement for a documentary film called "The Goddess Remembered" by the Canadian director Donna Read. It’s funny how a split moment can change the course of your life, but that’s exactly what happened to me the day I went to see this film. 

While sitting in the movie theatre I was transfixed, mesmerized by the music, the images and the truth I felt I was receiving about my history as a woman for the very first time: over 35,000 years of "pre-history" feminine, goddess-worshipping religions from our ancient past has always been there. It is a part of humanity. 

One of the featured women in this film, Jean Bolen, shared her story of giving birth and about our connection to each other as women. 

I left the theatre that day changed, inspired to research my history as a woman, a Feminine Spirit and a goddess. To begin my research I bought this film, and two others created by Donna Reed: "The Burning Times" and "Full Circle," each one examining a piece of the story of women.

I replayed each film over and over again, and each time something in me awakened that made me acknowledge my connection to all women and humanity through birth. What I didn’t expect from the inspiration of Donna Reed's films was the sacred prod to create for me, and for other women, a creative way to birth their Feminine Spirit. I listened, followed and created “The Awakening Project” dedicated to awakening what I called the “sleeping giant” the Feminine Spirit.

I believe the “Me Too” movement is all about women healing and bringing the Feminine Spirit’s voice out to help heal men and women alike, and quite possibly the world. I also believe the image of a woman’s body and the Feminine Spirit in humanity are becoming stronger, reflecting power and beauty not limited to one image, age, belief, religion, gender or country, but reflecting an image of beauty that speaks to a truth the worlds need now. We all come from a woman’s body. This truth is something people get when they see and feel it through empowered voices. The truth is, the power of women, the goddess, has been hidden, disguised, and may be protected for a very good reason we will never know. We don’t need to know why this is her time. All we need to do is take the lead!

This month, let’s celebrate women and the power of the feminine, and all of the women who over time have birthed a part of the change we are all witnesses to today.






A Mother's Day Meditation + Playlist

Here is a playlist I created for Mother's Day. Enjoy. Feel free to use this meditation at the end of your Mother's Day workout class:



"Love is the rhythm of motherhood. It is a force that charges the heart of all who take on the role of mothering. Man, woman, friend, neighbor, mother. It is the heartbeat of life and the magical exchange between one who mothers and the one being mothered. This sacred rhythm of mothering is a voice that defines a most sacred relationship. It is not always created by birth, but by the desire to help another grow into a healthy human being. 

Mothers are not famous people but remarkable individuals in the way they touch lives. People who mother are daughters and sons who give voice to mothering wisdom. They tell the story of sacrifices, courage, and love that broke open their hearts. Their stories are a reminder that out of love we are born, out of love we are guided. May the mother in you touch the world and awaken the heart of another to love"




 
The Playlist:


A Song For Mama- Boys II Men
Mama- The-Dream
Mother- Ashanti
Mother- Florence + The Machine
Hey Mama- Kanye West
Hey Mama (ft. Nikki Minaj, Bebe Rexha, & Afrojack)- David Guetta
Mother- Lissie
Mama- August Alsina
Mother- Pink Floyd
Thank You For Hearing Me- Sinead O'Connor






Awakening the New Feminine Spirit Museum 2018

“I saw the angel in the marble and carved until I set him free.” Michelangelo

When I read this quote by Michaelangelo, I knew I wanted to create are to set people free form something inside them. I never imagined I would be guided to set the feminine spirit free through art, but that’s exactly what happened. Having arrived at the end of the 13-month course I created called “Awakening the New Feminine Spirit” I am excited to invite you to stroll through the online museum curated from the participants. Look, breathe in the images and I have no doubt you will be touched and in your own way, “awakened”. To find out more about how you can participate in the next TAP-Awakening the New Feminine Spirit group, email me at pr@nianow.com.

The intimacy I experience by allowing myself to look and receive the art created by the TAP participants has given me the opportunity to come face-to-face with the power and beauty of the many faces of the feminine spirit, something in me, in you, and in every human being. Even if you do not see it, she is at the tip of your fingers, on your lips, and in your heart and soul waiting to be awakened. Come Into Her Museum and feast.

Explore my new Awakening the New Feminine Spirit Museum here: www.debbierosas.com/tap-finale.

Send me your art here: pr@nianow.com






Mental Health

I believe the body is the most precious thing we own and that the most important relationship we will ever have is the one we have with our body. I also believe that life, by its very nature, is fragile, disruptive and stressful. I have had my own body and life challenges that caused me to think about staying or leaving this life. I am one of the lucky ones who knew choosing death was not a choice. What were the signs that my mental health was suffering and in what way could I align my mind, body and soul to face these obstacles head on? Why me, am I the only one feeling this way? Where can I find the help I’m looking for? Like so many others, these were the questions that often plagued my mind and fortunately I’m a testament to the fact that you can and will find healthy solutions to life’s hardships.

If you're like me you have recently been touched by the latest suicides of high profile people, witnessing the choice of death as what was perceived as the only choice in a desperate struggle to feel better. It's not that suicide is only now profoundly impacting so many-it always has. As a teenager I had first-hand experience when my best friend tried to commit suicide--an attempt that left a lingering impression on me and my life. After graduation I worked at the Missouri Institute of Psychiatry in the drug research department where I saw a lot that left me feeling this truth: we are fragile human beings.

Not just skin and bone, but a spirit that feels, with mental, physical, emotional, and spiritual parts that somehow are supposed to work together, listening to each other to support our survival. The problem is that sometimes our choices and life feed and nurture us, while at other times, life, and choices can destroy us. To the world, on the outside, our life may look perfect. On the inside what we feel may be tragically different. We’re not all so lucky to live a healthy, safe and meaningful life. Life can be hard, painful and a struggle.

I brag that I make choices by living as a sensation scientist. I am privileged. My body is my profession and business. I was lucky that what is wrong with my mind: dyslexia was something I was able to figure out and overcome by learning to manage my learning disabilities. Not everyone is that lucky.

I brag my body is my laboratory. I am privileged. I love the body and my body, and I have discovered how to be in a relationship with my body and with the good, bad and ugly of life, surfing the ups and downs without getting lost in the down. I knew I needed help and with the support and guidance of many therapists, I learned how to go down and come back up.

I brag guided by the sensation of pleasure and Nia movement is the way I stay healthy and fit. I am privileged. I have researched not moving and moving and know how my brain is affected by a sedentary or mobile life. The body and brain love to move, but when you feel down, it can be hard to get up and get going.

I teach people that moving and living well is attainable. Many people can’t imagine this. They are the ones too far down who don’t know how to get up. They need our help. We can help.

We can let people down, know we care by giving them time to listen.
We can alert people, when we see others struggling, to their struggle and cry for help.
We can look, listen and feel and not avoid the hidden voice in us that tells us something is wrong.
We can care.

And if you are lucky, like me, you can stay mentally healthy by aligning with the Hippocratic oath, sworn by graduating doctors is the statement “first do no harm” and by:

Choosing joy, pleasure and comfort.
Speaking kindly to your mind and body.
Lending an ear to your body, listening.
Having faith.
Trust whatever is happening has meaning and purpose.
Shift controlling life to living in the moment.
Make choices that leave you moving and feeling better.
Don’t try to fix things, manage them.
Postpone things that can wait.
Get good at saying “no”.
Find a balance between getting through it, and surrendering.
Tell people what you need.
Give to yourself before you give to others.
Schedule life to support your energy.
Sleep. Drink water. Nourish.
Take mini 4-hour vacations.
Find ways to release anxiety and tension.
Love and laugh as much as possible.

By taking these steps you will be that much closer to a fulfilling and happy life, one suited for you that is both manageable and healthy. Remember that we are all in this together and we can get through this.






About the Art of Sensation: White Belt Body and Life Training

If you’re like most people you have a life, a job, a career, hobby, friends, a workout and even a health plan, but you have no body and life plan, which could be why you’re looking for something to fill the feeling of unrest and dissatisfied with the status quo. You know there’s more and you want it.
What if I told you there was a body and a life program that at any age you could learn and use to help keep your body and life healthy? A program that keeps your mind and brain growing and becoming more aware, focused, and clear. One that deeply connects your unique spirit to your soul, and to meaning and purpose. Would you say, “yes” to this plan? If so, Nia’s Art of Sensation, White Belt - Body and Life Training is for you. 
The focus of the first level of training is on you and your body. The intent is to help you build a healthy and meaningful relationship with your body and life and support “learning” through the body, therefore you are encouraged to take as few written notes as possible, and when you do, to document personal insights. 
We have designed a special book called The Art of Sensation - White Belt Learn Book. This book helps you learn the basics needed to begin your Nia practice. In it you’ll find all of the basic information: the first thirteen white belt principles. Once you register you will receive the digital download of this book. You can also purchase a hard copy of this book through the Nia Store on nianow.com. We encourage you to bring this book with you to your training. Inside are marked, “My Alchemy” blank pages that provide space for personal notes.
If you’re concerned you may not be able to keep up, relax. The days and lessons are designed in a way that gives you time to listen and physically explore the information using sensation to decode each lesson and gain personal knowledge, understanding, and skills. 
We know everyone receives information differently. Some people are visual, mental learners, while others are physical, and/or auditory learners. Nia training combines all styles of learning and we don’t ask you to memorize anything. All we ask is that you place your attention on learning by becoming curious, inquisitive and fascinated about you, your body, and about exploring the information shared. In this way, once you return home, we know you can successfully continue learning, and for those who desire to teach, you can successfully begin the process of becoming a Nia teacher through the content we provide on NiaTV.fit
No matter what your age and/or state of health and well-being, Nia trainings provide fitness, health, therapeutic, and wellness education. And for those wishing to teach Nia, after the initial training, your education will continue when you sign up as a Nia Teacher Member. This membership gives you everything you need to begin the process of becoming a Nia Teacher. It includes the self-guided First Time Nia Teacher Kit and Tutorial Program. 
No matter who trains you, rest assured every Nia trainer on the Nia Training Faculty brings unique talents and skills. Each one has been educated for over a minimum of seven years in the Nia Technique concepts and methods and has studied the body’s way: Nia’s unique approach to anatomy; the body’s form and function. Additionally, they have studied the science, craft and art of Nia as a sensation science, music and its therapeutic and conditioning application, Nia movement for self-healing and conditioning benefits, and philosophy, beliefs and attitudes as they relate to living a healthy and meaningful life in a body at any age, and in any state of health and well being. 
You can find Nia “Art of Sensation” White Belt - Body + Life Training and a White Belt Trainer and unique Schedule to fit your needs by going to https://nianow.com/white-belt
For over 35 years Nia’s workouts, the practice, lifestyle, and training have been changing people’s bodies and lives. Over 2400 teachers, in 41 countries, teach to populations with diverse needs, ranging from fit to those more challenged, aging, and even those needing to workout in a chair. 
Whether you’re a student who desires to go deeper into the Nia practice or an aspiring Nia Professional, Nia Art of Sensation – White Belt is where everyone begins. Upon successful completion of this training, you are eligible to become a Nia Teacher Member, receiving the additional training and license needed to teach Nia and represent yourself as a Nia Professional.
I hope you’ll join us on this journey of self-discovery by exploring the art of sensation.






A July Message from Debbie Rosas

It’s the end of July and I am about to take a two-week “Debbie” sabbatical. One week I’ll spend alone in the desert, listening and communing with Nia about the next steps and future I am asked to help co-create. The following week I will go study with my anatomy muse, Gild Hedley, where once again I will dive into the sacred art of dissection and come face-to-face with the glorious magic of the human body—our home. I now rest in the fact we have just finished taping the next Nia routine-workout “GO” with trainer and choreographer Holly Nastasi, which is a beautiful routine focusing on directions, with the intent to sharpen your awareness of the body moving in space. In my opinion this routine carries the felt sense of dancing in a field of whipped cream, nothing abrupt, executed with simplicity and ease, with time to experience the movements as deep, as intense, or as easy as you like. Once Holly left, I took the time to recapitulate my last series of training’s: White Belt, Moving to Heal, Black, and Brown Belt trainings. Here’s what I’d like to share from my recapitulation- meditation.



 

After any training what I sense in my body is always unique. Each group, one-of-a-kind, I perceive after White, Green, Blue or Brown Belt training a sense of fearless excitement in the graduates that I believe comes from knowing there is a “next step”. After Black Belt and First Degree, I sense something quite different that I believe stems from questions like: “What’s next; What if I never get to experience something like this again; What if I never get to be with these people? What if I can’t continuing learning like this?”

Being left in the dark is never good. Not knowing where one is going can often create a sense of fear and unsteadiness. Not to worry, as Nia seems to be the gift that keeps on giving! I can’t possibly stop? Nia won’t let me ignore the relentless voice that speaks through me, reminding me to not waste time, and to use my life and consciousness well, remembering this one body, in this lifetime, is all I have, so use it wisely.

After thirty-five years I am amazed at how every day I get up excited to listen and dance through life with Nia. Giving my attention and life to Nia, I feel guided by the one thing we can all count on — change. My willingness to free fall into the magic of the unknown is key if I am to listen to the voices coming through this amazing, living, breathing, feeling, thinking organ of perception I am — my body.

Last night I put my head on the pillow and felt proud of the Sacred Athlete and sensation scientist I have become! I felt deep love and gratitude for my body and the life I have been given. I fell asleep breathing a deep sigh knowing I am in, listening and following my voice, seat belt on, and ready for the next ride and evolution of Nia!

What I foresee on the horizon is a much more powerful structure of Nia’s form enlivened by Principle One from White Belt: Joy of Movement, connected to the sea of universal order. I see healing, sensing the power of the life-giving resonance we are a part of supporting us all in jumping on the trampoline of change, surrounded in a loving sea where every molecule of living and inorganic substance is being changed, replaced, moment-by-moment, year-by-year, eon by eon. I revel in the fact that in five to seven years at 72, down to the very last atom I will have a new body. Am I excited about the future? Yes, and I get even more excited knowing I have three maps to guide me: the map of Nia, and the map of the body and Universe. This triad provides me with the perfect foundation to evolve and thrive on a human, spirit and soul level; a desire of mine I believe comes from the fact that I shifted my perception of life being all about matter and substance (particles, quanta), into a point of view that looks at life through the underlying patterned waveforms. This is where I connect to the magic I sense around and moving through me. This is the magic of the unseen that fills my fifty-trillion cells, with the aliveness of a universal truth: life is more than what I see.

I am a radiant being. Filled with life force energy, light, and love. I am a three-dimensional thinking, feeling, dreaming, creative helix spiral staircase of matter and mystery that is connected to the heavenly worlds and a human world. I am connected to all that is, to all that has ever been and will be. I am a unique body, mind, emotions, and spirit with a purpose. Part of which, is to evolve and share Nia with you.






My Philosophy on Creating a Healthy Nia Community

I have just returned from a Dance Pull Event from, what I feel is one of the healthiest Nia communities that I have ever experienced, Richmond, Virginia. I come away with a sense of what is possible for any Nia community. Especially mine, which is the entire worldwide Nia Community! I know there are many good Nia communities, but in search of the “masterful one,” Richmond Virginia wins the “2018 Best Community Award.” Who is the judge? Me.
I am always touched by the passion and joy I see in Nia communities, but the passion and joy I felt in Richmond, Virginia felt different and deeply inclusive. Support was tangible in the way this community is connected on and off the dance floor. New teachers, no problem: there is support for you to learn and teach. New to the community, no problem: you’ll be invited to join every group. Birthday coming up, no problem: there’s a monthly birthday celebration for everyone. Looking for social activities with the Nia group, no problem: there’s a book club, there’s a get-together, and there are lunch and movie dates. Collaboration, help, support, it’s there for everyone.
Mary Beth Grinnen was my producer for the event in Richmond, Virginia. If you’ve been on Facebook you may have seen her out and about in Paris. She lived and taught Nia in Paris and has recently returned to the US where she and her husband are now living in Richmond, Virginia.
I arrived late to Richmond. Late is on par for a two-plane trip to the East Coast from Portland. Mary Beth and I drove to the most romantic, historic hotel, the Jefferson, epoch for sure! Hungry after not eating all day, Mary Beth suggested we go into the hotel bar for some food and a quick drink. I love arriving somewhere and spending time with a Nia teacher-producer. We chatted about her new life there, and her transition from Paris, back to teaching in the US. We kept the night short as the next day I was on for a Dance Pull Event and two Nia classes.
They say if you want to know how a teacher is doing watch the students. This is what I did. I watched the students and Nia teachers and saw how this community walks the talk of the Nia principles and philosophy. I learned that it is possible to create a very ego healthy community.
When we are faced with criticism we are given the opportunity to look deep within to find our truth. It is always best when what follows comes from the heart and is never used to incite people by writing and speaking viscous words that hurt the people we feel hurt us.
Having said this, I am sending my philosophy. This is what guides me when things don’t go so smoothly in a community, or when I’m dealing with a disgruntled trainee or customer. This is the philosophy I use to guide my choices and decisions that keep my communication coming from the heart. I’ve included my purpose, which I use to keep me on point with what I desire. 
MY PURPOSE: to inspire people to feel in order to heal. This guides me in creating the best environment for a healthy body, mind, emotions, spirit of people to evolve from honest and loving communication, leading to a wisdom that is a result of attention, awareness, forgiveness, and healing. 
MY PHILOSOPHY:
I BELIEVE there is no room for love without forgiveness, and there is no forgiveness without love. 
I BELIEVE the best way to create a relationship is with love, not hate. 
I BELIEVE it takes a lot to love when you feel hurt and victimized, when trust is broken, and when words leave you feeling hurt, angry, and mad.
I BELIEVE it takes strength and courage to forgive and when I am weak, I cannot forgive, and when I feel strong, I can.
I BELIEVE only light can take us out of darkness, and wanting to punish keeps us in the dark.
I BELIEVE all mistakes are forgivable.  
I BELIEVE if we have the courage to admit mistakes we can learn from them and do better next time. 
I BELIEVE listening to what others have to say without defending oneself, is a sign of respect for people’s unique experiences.
I BELIEVE violence is created in what we verbally say, what we feel, think, write and do.
I BELIEVE every person we believe attacks us gives us the opportunity to look into truth and stand for what we believe.
Love,
Debbie Rosas






Awakening the Feminine Spirit

My name is Debbie Rosas. I am a woman, visionary and leader of change, and celebrating women is something I am passionate about. I love turning women on to the power of their body, mind, emotions, and spirit. So much so, I’ve dedicated my life to helping women turn-on and tune-in to their voices. These days, women’s voices seem to be raging, howling, kicking and screaming “enough”. This is a good thing. It’s her time. It’s our time. There’s no more time.

It’s funny how a split moment can change the course of your life, but that’s exactly what happened to me the day I went to see the film, The Goddess Remembered by the Canadian director Donna Read.

While sitting in the movie theatre I was transfixed, mesmerized by the music, the images, and the truth I felt I was receiving about my history as a woman for the very first time: over 35,000 years of “pre-history” feminine, goddess-worshipping religions from our ancient past has always been there. It is a part of humanity.

I left the theatre that day changed, inspired to research my history as a woman, a Feminine Spirit and a goddess. To begin my research I bought this film, and two others created by Donna Read: The Burning Times and Full Circle, each one examining a piece of the story of women.

I replayed each film over and over again, and each time something in me awakened that made me acknowledge my connection to all women and humanity through birth. What I didn’t expect from the inspiration of Donna Reed’s films was the sacred prod to create for me, and for other women, a creative way to birth their Feminine Spirit. I listened, followed and created “The Awakening Project” dedicated to awakening what I called the “sleeping giant” the Feminine Spirit.

The Awakening Project is about being your full potential, being fully yourself and being connected to the unique power of your soul's purpose. Through art and community collaboration, The Awakening Project unleashes the splendor of the Feminine Spirit’s voice and soul. It’s a celebration of life and self-love.

In the wake of the “Me Too” movement and a rise in disconcerting politics, I believe the image of a woman’s body and the Feminine Spirit in humanity are becoming stronger, reflecting power and beauty not limited to one image, age, belief, religion, gender or country, but reflecting an image of beauty that speaks to a truth the world needs right now. We are living in a time in which women are starting to retake their own narrative and bring the Feminine Spirit’s voice out to help heal both men and women alike; and quite possibly the world. The truth is, the power of women, the goddess, has been hidden and disguised for far too long. Now is her time, and all we need to do is take the lead!

We each have within us the power to change the world and create peace. We can do this by enhancing and optimizing ourselves as a unit of power. There is a great deal we can do for the world on a grand scale to create peace and harmony. Awakening the Feminine Spirit is my prayer for peace in physical form. I hope you will consider joining me. Find out more at www.debbierosas.com/awakening.






My Philosophy on Creating an Extraordinary Culture

Dear Nia Teachers,
I always dreamed of Nia becoming an extraordinary and loving culture, a healthy social and transformational healing organization. One where elders like me, and trained teachers lead the new others, helping them learn, embody and if they choose, share Nia. I have always dreamed of creating a community that understands what it means to protect the message and meaning of Nia: the message, “Through movement we find health” and meaning, “Help people live a healthy and meaningful life in their body, no matter what their age or level of health and well being”.
I believe the challenge we face in creating an extraordinary and loving Nia culture comes from the fact: people come to Nia in need of personal work, and as they learn Nia, at the same time, they are learning about themselves, about their life and their body, mind, emotions, and spirit. It’s a given people come to Nia with their personal baggage, and even though people come dedicated to transformation and growth, the mixed set of beliefs, attitudes, personalities, and customs can get in the way of creating the very best outcome for all. 
 I believe no good comes when hate and punishment are a part of the communication, and that good comes when love, forgiveness, and compassion are a part of the communication. As we learn, it is natural to fall down, make mistakes, even do terrible, hurtful things, but we can always “take-two” and re-do. We can apologize and change course. We can be guided by a philosophy that helps us take conscious action, and choose love and patience when we are hurt by unkind words and when we feel attacked.
My over forty plus years in creating Nia as a business rooted in “personal” growth means I know, no one is perfect, not me, no trainer, and no teacher. No one can be expected to go through this level of transformation without getting knocked down a few times and getting back up, going back in and onto the mat of life, and facing one’s own and other people’s thoughts, attitudes, and beliefs. In my experience, forgiveness and compassion are journey’s we must travel; this includes consciously releasing anger and pain. If we are unable to forgive it is easy to slip into the world of resentment, and with resentment comes the belief that the other is “wrong” and “bad”. The result is feeling victimized. Yes, sometimes, we are victimized, but we do not have to remain a victim. 
Good communication takes wisdom and courage. It takes willingness. It takes the power to believe in people, and in the power to change and become better at being human. I believe in this. I believe in Nia and I believe in the power of Nia communities to emerge into creating an extraordinary and loving Nia culture. What do you believe?
Love,
Debbie Rosas






Building a Solid Nia Foundation

They say no two snowflakes or people are alike, which is why I say, “Nia is a mixture of regularity and randomness”. A mix of me, Stuart, you, students and the staff that supports my grand vision of helping people live healthy and meaningful lives at any stage of their life, or state of health and well being. The regularity and randomness of Nia is what makes Nia powerful and also a challenge, as there is not one way to share Nia. Like the body, Nia is best shared and promoted as separate categories that address people’s desire for wanting a different way to get fit, age, live, and/or cope with illness. When we look closely enough at each separate category and at the four pillars of Nia: fitness, health, power and beauty, we see how what seems as diversity comes from an identical underlying form and design. What sort of universe makes something so similar and yet different? The universe and Nia, which is why it is time to regroup and reestablish a solid foundation that will allow the form to differentiate and grow using the key seed and ingredient of universal joy life force to establish a new and better foundation.

What I can tell you is that my intent for the company is to grow stronger and be in better shape so that Nia can do what it's meant to do: be of service to people to help them live a meaningful, loving and rewarding life in their body. I intend to fashion and structure an atmosphere that better benefits Nia, me, and trainers and teachers; enabling us to attract more people by putting the customer first.  As the business of trainers and teachers grows, the company grows with it; this time from a sustainable foundation.

I am taking the time to understand the patterns and nature of Nia more clearly. If you ask me, “Will I succeed?” I can only tell you that I want to, and I hope to get as far as I can in this puzzle which today, still puzzles me. Why is Nia not growing when the value, the product, and the message is timely and good? I cannot answer this but I can stop and make changes. I can listen, look, and wonder, and be reminded as I look up to the sky that with the 400 billion stars, of which our sun is one, there is room for us all to shine.

I believe we are in the right place at the right time. I for one feel like I am being asked to effortlessly and lovingly riot against struggle, meanness, pain, and overdoing. I must be brash and bold and make choices and decisions without concern but with compassion for those who may not get what they feel they deserve from me or from Nia.

I believe Nia is a living calligraphy, a movement, designed to make people better, and that within this vision and dream, I must remember that Nia is my work. It is something I am being asked to share and I must do this in a way that feeds me, my home, and family; as well as creates a sacred livelihood and a meaningful and rewarding life for others.

Is there a hidden unity that exists in the faculty and in the Nia teaching communities? I hope so. If we can’t find and establish unity we are in trouble. I do know, layer-by-layer, I am looking at what works, what needs realignment, and what I need to do to take the leadership role I have always been asked to take. I am ready, and with the support of Stuart, I am held and guided.

The shape of Nia is affecting the flow. Some paces in Nia have eroded and others are blocked. Some shine. Some need polishing.

The big picture for Nia remains. For now, the focus is on rebuilding a solid foundation and on moving more slowly, creating the right environment to thrive and creating circles of influence around me that make it easier and more enjoyable to do what needs to be done.

I appreciate the conversations and the abundance of love and passion you continue to share.

As we move forward and assemble in a new way I will do my best to guide you in the way I feel is best for the higher good of us all; as my eye is not on the “one” for the “one” but on the spiritual one for all.

Nada Brahma – the world is sound – DNia.  In structure, DNA is reminiscent of a long twisting ladder. We are climbing this ladder. The sides are twin stands, the rungs are pairs. The ladder is split down the middle, vertically lengthwise. Each half consists of a backbone twisted into a spiral- a helix. The sequences along the backbone make up the code. The DNA replicates by splitting lengthwise. This occurs when a cell is about to split into two daughter cells. And each cell assures that the other will have the full genes possessed by the parent. Each half is free to attract a new molecule to match the base on its string. The duplicate can be exact or near.

This is the voice and sound I continue to sing.

May the overtones you bring expand the sound of this amazing work for generations to come.

Thank you.

Love,

Debbie






Celebrating the Gift of Giving

I believe we are all born to give and that as children, given a healthy home life with loving parents who teach you “there is enough”, the gift of giving can become a daily act. I’m not there, or at least I don’t think I am, which is kind of odd when I consider I get “thank you” from people around the world thanking me for the gift of Nia. Sometimes the thank you comes in unexpected, surprising ways that touch me more deeply. Today was one of those days when at the end of the hour and a half class I taught in Tuscon, Arizona I received a most precious book filled with personal Nia stories. The Nia teachers and students wrote their stories and asked Lisa Walters to creatively put them together in a book for me. I read this book on my way to LA for my friend Bill’s memorial to celebrate his life: that too was a touching and beautiful experience that I will always cherish being a part of.
I leave Tuscon, Arizona with a full heart, reminded how blessed my life is, and how life is something better when we share in the dance of life! Thank you, Tuscon! I look forward to coming again.

[gallery ids="5067,5068,5069,5070,5071,5072"]






